So, in my headphones, I have Are You
Ready for some football?
>> Yeah, I was listening to that, too. Yes,
dude. It gets you so pumped up.
>> It totally does. I feel like I grew up
on the Fox Sports theme.
>> It always makes me think of
Thanksgiving.
>> It makes me think of I think it was a
Jock Jams tape that I bought.
>> Who got the truth?
Is it? Is it? Is it you? Who got the
truth? Now,
is it you? Is it you? Is it sitt
on the way?
>> Welcome to this special remastered
edition of Acquired, the podcast about
great companies and the stories and
playbooks behind them. I'm Ben Gilbert.
>> I'm David Rosenthal.
>> And we are your hosts. 3 years ago in
January of 2023, we released an episode
on the National Football League, which
David, I think is absolutely an
essential part of Acquired Canon.
>> Totally agree. We took so much from that
episode.
>> But listeners, a few things have
happened since then. One, the NFL has
become even more of a juggernaut. Two,
Acquired's audience grew a lot, so many
of you never heard that episode. And
three, the uh Ultimate Acquired Universe
crossover happened between the NFL and
uh Taylor Swift.
>> Yes. It was kind of uh bad timing when
we made this originally because it was
right before that happened.
>> Yes. But Ben, you forgot the most
important thing, which is that this year
in 2026, we are hosting the Super Bowl's
innovation summit at the Super Bowl in
San Francisco this year.
>> Yes, we are. listeners. Details on how
and when you can watch that are in the
show notes. So, to help us come up to
speed and prepare for that and to help
you get pumped for the Super Bowl, we
decided to remaster our NFL episode to
today's acquired production quality
standards. We also decided to update the
episode with everything that has changed
about the league from streaming on
YouTube and Netflix and Amazon and all
those deals to our updated thinking on
the international strategy for the NFL.
And of course, how uh the influx of
gambling being legalized has affected
the league.
>> And at the very end, we have the wild
story of how private equity has entered
the league, too. So, make sure you stay
tuned for that because it is nuts. Yes,
we're going to put all of these updates
in a special new section right at the
end of the episode. So, listeners, it is
time to throw it over to myself from
2023 and onto our remastered episode of
the National Football League. Football
is America's favorite sport by far. In
fact, football is more than three times
as popular as the next highest sport,
basketball. The Super Bowl is watched by
over a 100 million viewers every year in
approximately 2/3 of American
households. My favorite Super Bowl stat
is that it's the weekend with the fewest
weddings planned of the year.
It is the NFL's world and Americans are
just living in it. especially the TV
networks which have been reduced from
pillars of our nation in their heyday to
largely distribution channels for the
NFL today plus some other lesser
programming sprinkled in. Of the top 100
TV broadcasts aired last year, 82 of
them were NFL games.
>> Wow, that is wild.
>> Totally wild. But how did we get here?
How did this game become the most
valuable media property in America? The
story is one of incredible cooperation,
of belief in growing the pie over a
century, and just like our benchmark
episode, of communist capitalism at its
finest. The NFL owners have made bold
long-term bets in choosing to divide
their revenues equally in a way that no
other sports league has. Of course, the
NFL hasn't been free of controversy.
From the horrible recent onfield
collapse of Demar Hamlin to the epidemic
of CTE among former football players,
players are clearly putting their lives
at risk and the modern fans relationship
with the sport is complicated. I
personally love watching football. It
has been finely tuned over the years to
be maximally maximally entertaining, but
it comes with cognitive dissonance for
me every time I tune in and I know many
others feel the same. Whether pro
football is your favorite pastime or you
think it's a societal ill, there is no
denying the incredible role that it
plays in all of our lives today. Now
listeners, just like our NBA episode a
couple of years ago, this is an episode
on the business of football. It's not
specifically about things I learned
reviewing game film or the merits of the
eye formation. Today we're talking about
the business. But we do have some sports
thank yous to Michael McCainbridge,
author of America's Game, which provided
much of the research for this episode.
And it's just like the definitive
biography style history of the NFL.
Well, after you finish this episode,
come discuss it with the other smart,
curious, kind members of the Acquired
Slack at acquired.fm/slack.
And listeners, this is not investment
advice. David and I may have investments
in the companies we discuss. All right,
David, take us in. Where are we
starting?
>> All right, we start on November 6th,
on the campus of Ruckers University in
New Brunswick, New Jersey. Just a very
short train ride up from Princeton, New
Jersey, as I know well from my time
there, where indeed a group of about 25
or so Princeton students were up at
Ruckers to visit a similarlyssized group
of Rucker students and they were there
to play a game of football. Now, what
was football in 1869? This is not
someone dropping back in the pocket and
throwing a 70-yard bomb.
>> No, no, no, no. It was essentially what
today is classified as mob football,
quote unquote, or medieval football.
This had been played for centuries in
England. And basically the only goal of
the game was for one side to get a ball
to a certain spot on the other side. And
that was it. There were no rules. Any
number of people could participate on
either side. You could do anything up to
and including maming and killing people
on the other side or your own, which
happened quite frequently.
>> I mean, keep in mind this is four years
after the end of the Civil War.
>> Yes. So now, why were these two groups
of Princeton and Rucker students so
interested in playing this game, this
terribly violent game? Well, back in
England, it was quite popular among
public school students. Now, public
schools in England are like private
schools in America. And they were
starting to adapt it into an actual
sport. And so, like any sort of
stepchild nation, these American college
kids were kind of trying to keep up with
the social elite back in the mother
country and do the same thing. bring
football in a codified way to schools in
America. There were 25 players per team,
so 50 people on the field. A round ball
that could not be picked up and carried,
couldn't be thrown, and the object was
to kick the ball through the opponent's
goal for which he received one point.
>> Okay. So, a soccer with 25 people on a
team.
>> Yes. But that was the start of what
would become intercolgate American
football. And this becomes just like
back in England wildly popular. And over
the next 5 to 10 years, it gets more and
more codified and formalized amongst the
Ivy League. It kind of comes to be seen
as this integral part of the college
experience, this character building
experience. It's also still wildly
dangerous. There are like deaths,
serious injuries, very very common
through this period. Finally, 1905,
there are 19 fatalities in intercolgiate
football in the US and a serious injury
at Harvard to one Theodore Roosevelt
Jr., son of sitting President Theodore
Roosevelt. So, this is a major event.
After that happens, Teddy Roosevelt
calls the summit of all the major
colleges and universities in New York
City and says he's going to outlaw the
game in the US unless they adopt major
changes to make the game safer. And you
also have to imagine, of course, it hits
close to home for him with his son, but
he's sort of viewing this as, hey, the
people that are best and brightest are
playing this game that is actually
hurting the nation. we are cutting down
people in their prime and we kind of
have to do something about that.
>> Yeah. And it's a fine line, right? Like
I think the violence is a critical part
of this sort of right of passage and
Teddy Roosevelt probably kind of likes
it because this is a training ground for
future
>> military
>> governmental and military leaders of
America. So, I had no idea until doing
the research this summit that Teddy
Roosevelt calls and then he basically
tells all the presidents of the
universities like, "Hey, you guys got to
figure this out or I'm going to outlaw
this." In response, they create the
NCAA. Like, that is the beginning of the
NCA.
>> Oh, I didn't realize that.
>> Yeah. It was to regulate and codify and
make the game of collegiate American
football safer.
>> Huh. Yeah. Crazy, right? So following
that, this new institution that becomes
the NCAA, they institute the creation of
a neutral zone. They abolish the use of
wedge formations. So they do make the
sport safer. I mean, there's still like
a lot of injuries. There's not a lot of
protective padding being worn here.
>> And a lot of this predates even leather
helmets. People are just playing this in
regular clothes.
>> Yes. But they also make a change to the
rules after this summit that would
become the defining element of American
football and fully differentiate it from
soccer and rugby which rugby itself came
from soccer. Rugby is the set of soccer
rules that the English public school
rugby used. Hence why it's called rugby.
And this rule that the NCAA institutes
is legalizing the forward pass in 1905.
>> And that becomes obviously a defining
characteristic of football.
>> And to underscore how much this changed
things, football was exclusively a
violent game to this point in history,
American football. But when we think
about American football today and you're
watching Monday Night Football and the
beautiful popping color and all the
lights and all the slow-mo, there's a
beauty to the game. There's a
romanticism. There's a moment where you
hold your breath. The world seems to
move slowly. It's a ballet. This
introduced what would become the
counterbalancing force to the incredible
violence of football, which is the true
beauty of watching it.
>> Yeah. the beauty and the strategic
element too. The offensive playbook, the
defensive coverages, the audles. There's
no way a casual fan can understand all
of it. And yet the ballet, as you say,
is mesmerizing to watch. Collegiate
American football just becomes wildly,
wildly popular and still is to this day.
Like it is a huge part of the American
sports landscape and it was even more so
then.
>> All right, so the NCAA has formed. We've
now got the forward pass. So, modern
football, does that lead to the NFL?
>> No. Again, very specifically, we're
spending a lot of time on the origins of
football and college here, but it's so
important for understanding the NFL.
This is a college thing. This is a
American collegiate experience that
these elite young men go through, this
dangerous kind of warlike activity.
There's this sacred element to it. So
much so that while in the early 1900s
some professional teams do start to pop
up around the country and these are
teams not leagues. So these are
barnstorming teams that would go around
like there's no organized schedule of
play but they're viewed not only just as
second rate to the college game. They're
like dirty. Why are you taking this
esteemed thing that our best and
brightest participate in and turning it
into this entertainment act?
>> Yeah, it's even more than that. Many
people, especially the elite, viewed
professional football as actually
immoral because it was profaining this
thing with money. The gripe that they
had against it was the money. It wasn't
the game. It wasn't how the game was
played. It was the same game, often the
same people who played in college.
>> Oh, I see. Like, it's supposed to be
amateur. It's supposed to be amateur.
This should not be a professional
activity. This is a right of passage for
young men. So through the teens and 20s,
like that was very much the attitude.
And for professional sports, there was
one game in town and that was baseball.
Michael McCainbridge has a great quote
in the beginning of America's game where
he says to say that baseball was the
number one sport in America is to imply
a hierarchy where none existed. Baseball
towered above the sporting landscape
like a colossus. the unquestioned
national pastime, the only game that
mattered. Most fans had come to accept
baseball's primacy as something
immutable, as much a part of the natural
order of things as air and water. Of
course, this is the era of the New York
Yankees and Babe Ruth and Lou Garri and
all these storied parts of American
history. Baseball is very much a
professional sport played for money
where the goal of teams is to make money
and the business model is they sell
admission to the games.
>> Yep. So it's not like professional
sports were all looked down upon. Not at
all. It was that football was this very
special thing. Yes. So into this
dynamic environment
in 1920 enters the American Professional
Football Conference soon in a few years
to be renamed the National Football
League. the founding of the NFL
>> and started on August 20th, 1920 when
the heads of several of these
barnstorming quasi professional football
teams meet at the Jordan and Hupmobile
Auto Showroom in Canton, Ohio. Now, the
driving force behind this meeting being
called is one George
and he is currently in Decar, Illinois,
where he is an employee of the AE Staley
Star Company.
and his main duty is to organize and
coach and be the star player for the
company football team,
>> which of course is called the Stalys.
>> Yes,
>> the sponsorship is so deeply rooted in
the NFL that the very first team was
actually named the sponsor.
>> They weren't even sponsors. it was the
employees of the company who played for
the now
sort of had a mandate to go out and
recruit employees who happen to be good
football players. So these folks that
come together at George Halis's
instigation they have a goal. They want
to legitimize professional football in
the eyes of Americans and they develop a
plan for doing so. They think they can
really separate the pro game from the
college game, make it a legitimate
thing, and they have three parts to the
plan. One, they are not going to sign
any current college players. There's
going to be a strict strict demarcation
between the college game and the pro
game. They will not try and get any
current college players to come play for
a pro team, which would happen under
assumed names. You know, you could
imagine these college kids, they want to
make money. This is so ingrained in the
NFL that it is basically still true 103
years later. Here we are in 2023.
You still can't go to the NFL out of
high school. You can only go with the
junior year of your graduating class
from college. You can go one year early.
In a 100red years, that's the one
concession that's been made.
>> So point one, they're not going to raid
the college game. Point two, they're
going to endeavor to play the game at a
high ethical and rules-based standard.
>> Yeah, these teams that are coming
together, some were independent, some
were part of the Ohio League, some were
part of the New York Pro football
league. So, there were sort of slightly
different rule books and slightly
different customs that are going on. And
this is the idea that no, we need to
unify these things to set an expectation
for fans.
>> Yep. Standardize what the game is.
>> Yes. And then number three, perhaps the
uh most important, they're going to make
Jim Thorp the president of the league.
These guys are smart. Now, many of you
probably know who Jim Thorp was, but Jim
was at that point in time the leader of
the Canton Bulldogs, one of the teams
that was strategically included in this
discussion. And the meeting happened at
that Canton auto showroom, probably
because of this. Jim Thorp was the GOAT.
He was the greatest athlete that had
ever lived to that point in time.
>> Which is not to say like if you put him
through the NFL combine today, he would
win. It's sort of handicapped with all
of what we knew about modern sports
science of his day.
>> The distance between Jim Thorp as an
athlete and any other athlete in the
world at that point in time was greater
than I think that distance has ever been
since. So Jim Thorp was a Native
American who was part of the Sack and
Fox Nation and ended up playing college
football at a small school called the
Carile Indian Industrial School, which
happened to be coached by a guy named
Pop Warner,
>> who of course is the person that all of
the youth football leagues are named
after today, Pop Warner League. He and
Pop led this small tiny Carile Indian
Industrial School to a national
championship while he was playing there
against all these big Ivy League
powerhouses and Ohio State and others.
And the deep deep irony given what was
about to happen with professional sports
in the NFL becoming completely white.
The first star player, the whole basis
of the league, the first president of
the league was a person of color. In
addition to playing professional
football, the thing that is just
unbelievable about Jim Thorp, he won two
gold medals in the 1912 summer Olympics
in Sweden in the pentathlon and the
decathlon. He had never competed in the
decathlon before.
>> Oh my god.
>> The first time that he competed in the
decathlon was in the 1912 summer
Olympics and he won the gold medal.
>> Wild. Wasn't he also an outfielder with
the New York Giants?
>> Yeah. and basketball and won gold
medals. Wild. So, this new league, Proto
NFL, formed in 1920 with 14 teams and
about as much instant legitimacy as you
could get from Jim Thorp. They pretty
quickly become the biggest professional
football league in America. There's not
a lot of stiff competition
>> and they consolidated the smaller
leagues to create this in the Midwest.
>> Yes. But that said, the 20s and really
the 30s too, it's an uphill battle,
shall we say?
>> Oh, yeah. If you look at the what is it
15 teams or so that existed in 1920,
there are three franchises that endured
out of all of those. The rest of them,
the Columbus Panhandles, the Akran Pros,
the Chicago Tigers, all went under. And
the only ones that stayed the test of
time are the Decatur Sties, the Racing
Cardinals, and one we have not talked
about yet, the Green Bay Packers.
>> The Decatur Sties would become the
Bears. Chicago Bears.
>> The Bears. Yes. Actually named after the
Cubs.
>> That's right. Because they played in
Wrigley Field and Bears are bigger than
Cubs.
>> Yep.
>> So, it was an uphill battle for a couple
reasons. won even despite all their
efforts the stigma of professional
football really does not wear off
especially in the 20s. So after the NFL
is formed and starts getting publicity
in 1922,
then Michigan, sorry Ben, Michigan, then
Michigan head football coach Fielding
Yoast gives a very widely reported
speech in New York City where he's
talking about the new league and he says
that quote, "Pro Football robs the great
American game of many of its greatest
character building qualities, the ideals
of generous service, loyalty, sacrifice,
and wholehearted devotion to a cause are
all taken away. Now, of course, he's
partisan because he's a college football
coach, but this really was still the
prevailing sentiment. Yeah. The other
problems the NFL face are most of these
teams are based in kind of small towns.
They're not in big cities. 100% of these
teams either fold or move to larger
cities except for the Packers. They're
the only small market team that stood
the test of time.
>> Yeah. There was no TV. There was no
internet. Like the market size was not
unconstrained for these teams. The
market size was quite constrained. They
were filling a niche and a demand for
football in these towns, but they
weren't going to make that much money.
And they're massively lossmaking. I
mean, these teams last 2 to 5 years, and
there's another 15 teams that are formed
between the Chicago Bears and eventually
the New York Giants are formed around
1925 that stand the test of time. So,
it's amazing all these teams that spin
up and spin down within five years of
each other in this decade. It just
became completely nonviable economically
for small town teams to survive except
for Green Bay and they all end up moving
to the big city where they're very much
playing second fiddle to the baseball
teams.
>> Yeah. And most of these don't even end
up moving. They just end up closing
their doors.
>> The other important thing though to say
about the NFL during this time before
World War II is that in the beginning
there was Jim Thorp who was the first
president of the league. He's a
figurehead. he's only president for a
year and then they bring on a real
administrator. But, you know, obviously
he was Native American. He wasn't a
white person. There were several black
players in the league at that point in
time and it was like not a big deal. In
fact, the first NFL champions in that
first season, the Akran Pros, the star
player and the head coach was a man
named Fritz Pard who was black.
>> Wait, he's the star player and the head
coach? I love that. Unfortunately, in
the mid30s, supposedly after George
Preston Marshall comes into the league
as owner of the Boston Braves that
became the Boston Redskins and then
moved to Washington DC at his behest,
they adopt the same policy as Major
League Baseball and completely kick
blacks out of the league. And it
wouldn't be until after World War II and
for the Redskins, not until 1961. the
Redskins commensurate with keeping that
name for as long as they did. They were
uh very very very late to integrate the
team. I think they had some really big
fan base in the South and there weren't
a lot of NFL teams at that point in the
South. And so it was both because he was
racist and also because he realized he
would probably lose a lot of his fan
base who were also racist by integrating
his team, which is like a horrible thing
that it was a strategic advantage for
him to get that fan base by having a
exclusively white team. So all this
would continue kind of status quo the
league barely creeping along until after
World War II when both America and the
NFL would change forever and pretty
radically. So after the war, when all
the troops come home and there's the GI
Bill, there's this new middle class in
America that didn't go to these elite
private school Ivy League institutions
or even the Ohio States of the world or
the Carile Indian colleges and they're
coming home from the war. They don't
have college educations. They may be now
getting them through the GI Bill, but
they have jobs. They have disposable
income. They increasingly have radios
and soon to be television sets. They
want entertainment.
>> You sort of have this opportunity to be
a new thing in America that people do
with their time and dollars. And keep in
mind, every owner's experience to this
point is subsidizing losses. If you're
bringing on other people to try and be
co-owners of a team with you or you're
deciding that your family is going to
sort of carry the weight the whole time
or that your company's going to carry
the weight of the team, you're just
subsidizing losses. So every single
person involved in pro football
ownership at this point is not even lip
service for the love of the game, like
purely just for the love of the game.
But now, interestingly, there's a
business opportunity.
>> Yeah. and all these American GIs coming
home from the war and their families,
they don't have the same hang-ups and
preoccupations about the college
football game that the elite did before
the war because they didn't go to
college during their younger formative
years. So, there is this big opportunity
now after the war for professional
football in the NFL to become a much
bigger thing. and they probably would
not have realized it except their hand
was forced in 1944,
right before the end of the war. A lot
of people could see this opportunity.
Football was a very compelling game. The
NFL was only in what I think eight
cities at that point in time. To really
realize it, you had to expand. You had
to be in a lot more cities. And there
were wealthy business people in cities
all across America, East Coast, Midwest,
the South, Florida, who wanted to add
teams and come into the NFL, but the NFL
owners weren't interested in expansion,
>> right? And those eight teams, the
Cardinals, of course, they're in Arizona
today. You got the Chicago Bears, you
got the Green Bay Packers, the New York
Giants, the Detroit Lions, the Boston
Redskins had since moved to Washington.
You've got the Philadelphia Eagles, the
Pittsburgh Steelers, and at this point,
and this is crucial, the Cleveland Rams.
>> Yes. The Cleveland Rams, owned by the
forward-thinking Dan Reeves.
>> Yes. And this is the first Cleveland
team that did not shut down, but instead
moved.
>> So, the other potential ownership groups
in other cities across America that
wanted football leagues, at a certain
point, come 1944, they were just like,
"Well, the hell with you, NFL. we'll go
start our own league. Yep.
>> So, a new professional league gets
founded, the All-America Football
Conference in 1944,
>> the AAFC.
>> And it's got some pretty serious
firepower. It's organized by one of the
country's pre-minent sports journalists
based in Chicago. It's backed by some
high power ownership groups including
the famous Hollywood actor Donamichi in
Los Angeles, wealthy businessmen in San
Francisco, New York, Chicago, Miami, and
they have reached a deal with the
legendary Ohio State coach Paul Brown
when he's coming home from the war from
his service that he is not going to go
back to the college game. He's gonna
come coach the new AAFC Cleveland
franchise
named after him, the Cleveland Browns.
>> Yes. The man who transformed football,
Paul Brown. And this is the very first
time in sort of the modern NFL era where
you have this real threat of two
professional football teams that people
really want to see in the very same
city, the Cleveland Rams and the
soontobe Cleveland Browns in the AFC.
>> Yes. And in a head-to-head war between
those two franchises, the writing is on
the wall of who's going to win, and it's
not going to be the Rams. Now, Dan
Reeves thought that the NFL should be on
the West Coast and should be truly
national. And he wanted to move the Rams
to Los Angeles, but the NFL owners, by
the bylaws, you had to have 100%
unanimous approval of all the owners to
move a team, and they didn't want to.
>> And it makes a lot of sense. These teams
have lost money forever. It's like we're
just on the precipice of having a real
business here. Don't make us figure out
how to get these other seven teams to LA
once every whatever it is, six or seven
games. So now the war's ending. The AFC
and the Browns are coming in and then
the dagger comes right before the 1946
NFL annual meetings in January. Dan
Topping who owns the NFL's Brooklyn
Dodgers and also the New York Yankees
the baseball team. So like the highest
profile wealthiest owner in the NFL
defects to the AFC. So there's major
crisis. Yep. First thing they do in the
January 1946 annual meeting is they boot
out the then commissioner. So the
owners, they're like, "Okay, to lead
this fight, we can't have somebody from
the outside. We need to draft one of our
own from the ownership group here in the
inside who's going to be able to
marshall everybody together and lead a
coordinated response to this existential
threat. They install Bert Bell, who is
the owner of the Philadelphia Eagles, as
the new commissioner of the NFL, and
he's tasked immediately with drafting a
competitive response to the AFC."
And they decided it needs to be three
things. One, they need to go meet the
AAFC where they are being nationwide in
the West Coast and going to California.
Two, the NFL, if they're going to win,
they need to put out a superior product,
a better game on the field than the AFC.
And then three, for the first time, they
need to do a better job than the AFC, or
at least as good a job at actually
telling America about it. They have to
go proitize. They have to go win fans
and win consumers hearts and minds. So
fronts one and three are basically all
handled by Dan and the Rams. So
immediately after Bell comes in as
commissioner, he orchestrates approval
for the Rams to move out to California.
And it's a good thing they did because
when play eventually starts in the 1946
season, the New Browns in Cleveland for
their very first home game draw 60,000
fans, which is more than the Rams did
for the entire season the year before.
>> Yeah, Paul Brown was quite the
anticipated figure in Cleveland. He had
coached at Ohio State. He had coached
one of the Navy teams and he was sort of
known for knowing how to whip a football
team into shape who would have to know
the intellectual side of the game as
inside and out as the physical part of
the game. It was a huge part of his
strategy to make people memorize the
playbook and take written tests. And if
they failed these written tests about
the plays, about the rules, about Paul's
strategy, he'd kick him off the team,
>> no matter how good they were. And it's
the first time someone really looked at
the game and said, "Sure, it's a game,
but actually this could be a science."
He was almost like the first
Moneyballer. One of the first
innovations he did was he was one of the
first coaches to really review film and
recognize patterns in plays and
statistically manually tally here's what
we have to do against this team and that
team and here's what worked for us last
year and here's what didn't work for us
this year. Paul Bram was the first
modern not just football coach but I
think sports coach period in America and
you know every human is flawed so we
shouldn't make him out to be the messiah
or something but he was basically the
first coach to start racial integration
of the team and recognize that if we
have the best players then we're going
to win so we just need to do whatever it
takes to get the best players on our
team. The other thing that he did he
employed an entire staff of assistant
coaches year round. I think it was six
people in addition to him. No other team
did that.
>> And on the racial integration front, the
AFC was going to be an integrated league
from the beginning.
>> That's counterpositioning right there.
>> The NFL and especially the Redskins
didn't have a lot of interest in doing
so. But moving the Rams to LA forces the
league to integrate because the LA
Coliseum, where the Rams want to play,
is a publiclyowned building and it's
controlled then as now by the LA
Coliseum Commission. And when Reeves and
the Rams come out to petition their case
that they should come be allowed to play
in the Coliseum, well, the commission
says, "Okay, we'll let you play here,
but we're not going to allow any
segregated home teams to use our stadium
as their home stadium. So, you're going
to have to integrate the team." And this
is where the public relations aspect of
the Rams becomes clutch.
>> H the Rams were so good at PR. So, A,
they agree right away. B, not only that,
they say, 'Great, we'll sign Kenny
Washington, who before the war had been
a hero in Los Angeles. He was a huge
star for the UCLA football team. And all
this was helped out by a savvy young
intern for the Rams, one young Pete
Rosselle, who helps craft a lot of this
strategy.
>> But put a pin in Pete Roselle for the
moment. So, for a quick review of where
we are right now, you've got the NFL.
It's an eight team league. The Rams have
just moved from Cleveland to LA. And
then you've got this AFC that's starting
to play. What year do they actually
start?
>> 1946. Same year that the Rams moved to
California. And the roster of AAFC teams
is the Cleveland Browns that we've
talked about, the New York Yankees
football team, the Brooklyn Dodgers
football team,
>> which defected from the NFL.
>> Yes. The Buffalo Bison, the Miami
Seahawks, which is interesting. That has
nothing to do with the Seattle Seahawks.
They just reuse the same name. The San
Francisco 49ers, the Los Angeles Dons.
So, you've got two LA teams now. You've
got an AFC team and a NFL team and the
Chicago Rockets. So, you've got the NFL
and you've got the upstart AAFC that
would only last four years, but would
change the game quite a bit. And by
forcing this competition, they forced
the NFL to do a bunch of things that
really was in the NFL's best interest,
but they wouldn't have done absent
competition. And this is the first time
where we really learned the lesson. The
football that people will watch is the
most entertaining game.
>> Yes. Because this is something that
would not be obvious, I think, but for
running this experiment, what is the
most entertaining game? It's the most
competitive game on the field. And for
all that we were just lauding Paul Brown
and he's legendary, the teams he
coached, he was too good. His teams were
too good. So, the Browns end up winning
all four AAFC championships. They only
lose four games in four years and the
game becomes boring. There's no drama.
It's a foregone conclusion that the
Browns are going to win. If your team is
playing the Browns, if the Browns do
great at home, but when they're on the
road, they're like, "Well, the fans
like, why am I even going to go,
>> right? Watch my team get destroyed by
the Browns. Why would I want to do
that?" By the way, those words have
never come out of my mouth before
growing up a modern Browns fan.
Well, the current Browns are not the
same Browns as the old Browns.
>> They actually are the same. Importantly,
the franchise and records stayed with
Cleveland. The Baltimore Ravens are a
brand new team that started in the '9s,
not a relocated Cleveland team, despite
the fact that they took the whole front
office and team and ownership.
>> That's some serious rewriting of history
there by the NFL.
>> Yes. So, to your point, the NFL learns
this lesson here of, oh my gosh, we've
been sort of fortunate that this didn't
happen in our league, but it's really
nothing intentional that we did. There's
nothing structural that we did to ensure
there was no Cleveland Browns in our
league. It sort of accidentally
happened. And by observing the counter
example of boring football where there's
one dominant team, it kind of has to
become a core tenant of our league now
to fight these other guys of enough
equality between teams that it is always
very competitive.
>> And it's even more important back then
because there was radio, but there
wasn't really TV yet. Even though we're
in the postw World War II era, these
first few years, 5 years after the war,
the install base of TV was just starting
to roll out across America. So, this is
still an inerson game. And so, the
business model of professional sports
was ticket sales, in-person attendance
at the games. I don't think the AAFC
model of the Browns being dominant would
work ever, but at least today you could
watch the games on TV. They be like,
"Oh, I'm always going to see a show when
the Browns are playing." That wasn't the
case back then. You had to get butts in
seats. That was the only way you were
going to make money. This becomes a
feedback loop. If you don't make money
as a team, you can't afford to put a
quality level of play on the field,
which further tips the competitive
dynamic out of balance.
>> Totally. And if you have a league that
figures out how to make sure that it's
always competitive, and when I say
always competitive, what that translates
into from a business perspective is
let's say every stadium has 40,000 seats
and you have eight teams. That means you
have the capability to sell 160,000
seats every weekend and your goal is to
sell 160,000 tickets every single
weekend. And so what you basically need
is to make sure that it's always a great
game to come watch. And to your point
that the business model is around the
gate or ticket sales rather than TV,
that actually stayed the case until
1977.
That was the first year that the NFL
made more money from television revenue
than from ticket sales. That is a full
30 years later than the time period we
are talking about here.
>> I didn't realize it was that long. Yeah,
>> cuz television's going to come in a big
way. But back to Bert Bell, the newly
drafted commissioner of the NFL, this is
his great insight that he realizes as
he's marshalling the NFL owners in the
battle against the AFC. And he adopts
this as his mantra that literally, I
mean, they made a movie with this title.
On any given Sunday, any team in the
league should be able to beat any other
team. and he pushes this through with
the owners and gets them all to agree to
this of like, hey, the only way we're
going to survive and prosper is if we
agree that none of our teams can get so
dominant that we end up with a Cleveland
Browns situation.
>> Yep. All right. Well, listeners, this is
a great time to thank our longtime
friend of the show, Vanta, the leading
agentic trust platform that helps you
automate compliance and manage risk. And
David, I caught up with Christina and
the Vanta team to get the latest on this
one. Oh, nice.
>> Yes. So, listeners, you probably know
that Vant started by focusing on
compliance automation. You know, helping
companies get SOCK 2 and ISO 2701 and
GDPR and HIPPA. Their big insight was
they could build a system that would
monitor all your compliance and risk
continuously, not just once a year for
your audit, so you can feel confident in
your security posture all of the time.
But they've realized that the business
they're really in is making it easier
for you to earn the trust of your
customers.
>> Yes. Exactly.
>> So when you start scaling, you end up
with more compliance and more security
requirements and more tools which can
get very chaotic. And Vanta has become
the always on AI powered security expert
that scales with you. And as they like
to put it, they are the best security
hire you will never have to make.
>> Which makes total sense. I mean, Vanta
has really evolved beyond compliance
automation to actually building trust
with your customers better than you
could on your own. And that trust is
what closes deals.
>> Yeah. Which is why the fastest growing
companies in the world like Cursor and
Snowflake and Replet and Linear and Ramp
and Writer use Vanta to build trust with
their customers and spend 82% less time
on audits.
>> That is a lot of time back for their
engineers to focus on growth.
>> Yes. So, if your company is ready to
join Vanta's now more than 14,000
customers around the globe, just head on
over to vanta.com/acquired
and tell them that Ben and David sent
you here in 2026 and you will get $1,000
of free credit. That's
vanta.com/acquired.
All right. So, David Bert Bell, the new
commissioner of the NFL, adopts this
mindset of we have to keep the game
competitive always. What do they do
structurally
>> any given Sunday? So Bert and the NFL do
two things. First, he completely
overhauls the way the schedule works. So
in the past, the schedule would be just
like, yeah, whatever. You know, we're
all going to play each other, you know,
in random order. He realizes that the
schedule is actually an incredibly
important strategic lever. and he looks
at the results from last year's season
and arranges the schedule such that the
weaker teams from last year play the
other weaker teams for the first half of
the season and the stronger teams from
the previous season play the other
stronger teams for the first half of the
season. So that way he can come as close
as possible to guaranteeing that roughly
everybody's going to have statistically
a relatively even 50/50 record going
into the midway point in the season. And
so there's going to be drama about who's
going to end up winning, even though the
actual level of talent might diverge
quite a bit within the league.
>> Yeah. Even if you're a great team, if
you've only faced great teams for your
first several games, you're going to be
uh a little banged up coming into the
second half of the season.
>> And the NFL still does this to this day.
>> I didn't realize that.
>> Yeah, this is like a kind of critical
slight of hand in making the whole thing
work. But this is kind of like
camouflaging. If there is a competitive
balance problem underlying everything,
this is only camouflaging it. How do you
fix it?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, there's no free agency at this
point.
>> No, there isn't. And that's important
because there's no way to just go sign a
veteran player whose contract with
another team is up to make your team
better. You need to get brand new
rookies into the league. It's pretty
ridiculous. There actually wasn't a
concept of free agency at all until 1993
in the NFL.
>> I know. Which is ridiculous.
And so the NFL and BERT come up with the
idea of having a draft of college
players. And not just any draft, but a
draft in reverse order of where you
ended up in the standings in the
previous season, so that the worst teams
in the league get the first picks for
the next season's draft. And also in
doing the draft, we just continue to see
over and over and over again the pro
game having reverence for the college
game because America has reverence for
the college game. It's this idea that we
will watch the college football game
very carefully and then we will create a
day where on that day that is when we
will be eligible to go and pull the
people out of that game and into our
league.
>> And it's incredible the uh artifice that
grows up around this.
>> Oh 50 million people watch this thing
today.
>> I mean we were watching YouTube videos
and research of like Taylor Swift was at
the NFL draft a few years ago when it
was in Nashville. Like it's a huge
event. It was actually the first big
coup for ESPN when ESPN started in 1979
and 1980 was televising the NFL draft.
>> Genius.
>> So these two elements stacking the
schedule and then the reverse order
amateur draft form the nucleus of Bert
Bell in the NFL strategy that it's had
ever since which comes down to league
first. League first, team second.
>> Yeah. And there is a structural thing
that they did too which was to create a
shared pool of ticket revenue. 60% of
that revenue I get to keep because I'm
the home team. And at this point in
history, super early on, it was that the
other 40% would go to the visitors. Over
time, the league would evolve a
structural thing. So that 40% went into
a shared pool that got divided among
everyone else to sort of lean in harder
to this shared mindset. And this is sort
of before the uh TV revenues that are
shared today. So David, maybe this is a
time to talk about television's impact
on the NFL.
>> So as we said, the AFC only operates for
four years. The Browns are too dominant.
The AFC folds after four years. Only
three teams of the AFC's eight come over
to the NFL. The Browns, the 49ers, and
the Baltimore Colts,
>> who are of course now the Indianapolis
Colts.
>> Here we are now. It's the dawn of the
50s and television installed base is
here. So TV set sales in America in
1946, the first year after the war, were
7,000 TV sets sold in America.
>> In 1947, there were 14,000 TV sets sold.
So the market doubled. In 1948, there
were 172,000
television sets sold, and it only grew
exponentially from there.
>> Oh, I love that you looked this up. By
this point in the early 50s, there are
25 million homes in America with a
television set. Man, did history turn on
a knife point for the NFL's sake from
their perspective. Like, thank God a the
AFC
went into business and forced the NFL
into a competitive response to expand,
to change the game, and to start to
discover and understand this league
first mentality. Y
>> and then also thank God they beat them
by the end of the 40s and the beginning
of the 50s because now the NFL is the
only game in town for professional
football in America and they're the only
national league right as TVs are showing
up and really actually they are the only
game in town for national sports
television programming period because
there are other sports most notably
baseball as we've been talking about But
baseball,
if anything, they were a victim of their
own success because it was the dominant
professional sport. They made so much
better attendance numbers. They had all
the games
>> 162.
>> The gate, the ticket sales were so
important to baseball that with the
admin of television, the baseball owners
thought television was bad and they end
up fighting it.
>> Well, so did the football owners for a
while.
>> Well, so did the football owners, but
they had a lot less to lose. Well, yeah,
because pro football is still an
underdog sport here, even in the early
50s. They're like up and coming. They're
trying to get more people to go to
games, and baseball generates a ton of
stadium revenue from filling their
40,000 person stadiums. Indeed, baseball
had a lot to lose. And to be fair to all
of them, in the early days, and I think
for a long time, local market home
television airing of home games
absolutely depressed in-person
attendance. Totally. When the very first
NFL TV deals were signed, and of course
these were individual local deals signed
by team ownership and their local
television broadcasting affiliate. It
wasn't with CBS broadly. It was with,
you know, whatever your local TV station
is. They would black out all the home
games cuz they would say, "Uh, we need
to fill this stadium." Cuz until 1977,
the stadium, the gate was actually the
biggest form of revenue. And so why on
earth would we cannibalize our
experience when someone could just watch
it from home? Absolutely not.
>> It would later take a presidential order
from Richard Nixon to end the home
blackouts. And even then, only if the
home games were sold out would the
blackout be lifted. It wasn't until
after September 11th that blackouts were
lifted. Even if the home game wasn't
sold out, but it's a mess. But Ben, as
you say, in the 50s, these early
television experiments are being run
with sports and like it is pretty bad.
So the LA Rams, they do an individual
deal in 1950 with the Admiral Television
Company to broadcast the Rams games, but
they put a clause in the deal because
they'd seen what had happened with
baseball that Admiral would guarantee
revenue back to the Rams for any loss in
attendance. And this is a really bad
deal for Admiral because attendance
declines 50%. 5-0
>> which is crazy like for how bad the
broadcasts were. The fact that that is a
suitable replacement to go into the
game. I mean they would put like one
camera up on the 50 yard line and they
wouldn't do like any microphones and
they would just be like all right this
is the game. And maybe they'd have some
commentators.
>> Oh and it was in black and white on a
tiny screen and like yeah all of these
things. But the industry was new.
Everybody was figuring everything out.
The TV set manufacturers, the networks,
the content, the sports leagues. One of
the big marketing messages was the game
comes to you. You don't have to leave.
Buy this appliance, put it in your home,
and it's like a magical window. Like you
have a seat at the game. And it really
did depress attendance. A saying ends up
being developed in baseball that sadly
for baseball they stuck to for a very,
very long time. that radio wets the
appetite, television satiates it.
>> It's a new revenue stream, but it's
hurting the golden goose of ticket
sales. And all the way through the 50s,
it wouldn't really be a particularly
large revenue line. But as it did start
to grow, everyone's negotiating
individually. It ended up being the case
that the New York Giants were making
$200,000. And this is in 1959 on their
TV deal. The Packers were making zero. I
think the Packers were making 5K. They
did have a TV deal, but I think it was
$5,000. This is the thing. Football,
even amongst the individual teams, kept
experimenting through the early 50s,
whereas baseball basically shut it down
and turned away from TV. And one of the
things that they figure out is, oh,
television broadcasts depress the gate
at home, but there's strong demand in
local markets to see the teams away
games when they're traveling. And so for
the first few years, that's the main
model of television broadcast of the NFL
is just showing away games. But there's
like a lot of demand for that.
>> And it's funny cuz now we refer to this
as a blackout, but at the time because
they were only selling to local
affiliates. It's not that it was a black
out. It's that your local TV station
only had the contract to broadcast the
away games. There was nobody within your
antenna's reach that was broadcasting
that game when it was at home. So this
becomes a pretty meaningful revenue
stream. Even though, as you say, it
would be a long time before TV would
surpass the gate in revenue for the NFL.
By the end of the 50s, the league as a
whole, with all the 12 separate
contracts, was making over a million in
TV revenue annually, whereas at the
beginning of the decade, it was less
than $100,000.
And it also becomes clear that certain
football games
there's like a really big audience on TV
for them. In particular, the 1958 NFL
championship game known as the quote
greatest game ever played between the
Giants and the Colts led by Johnny
Unidas. A sudden death overtime dramatic
win garners 45 million TV
>> Wow. viewers across the country,
including President Eisenhower.
>> So, was this a national broadcast?
>> National broadcast of the NFL
championship game that year.
>> Importantly, this is not the Super Bowl.
David and I aren't being koi by not
calling it that. Like, that is not what
this was. And we're still missing about
half the teams that will end up
competing for the Super Bowl,
>> right? But 45 million viewers, this was
unprecedented. There is a huge
opportunity for professional football
and television.
>> Yes.
>> Which once again, the NFL was not the
one to
totally recognize.
>> Competition does create the best product
and the NFL time and time again has had
their hand forced and then reacted
really well to a new upstart.
>> Totally. So in this case, as the 50s
draw to a close, once again, just like
towards the end of World War II and the
end of the 40s, there were a whole bunch
more cities and ownership groups that
wanted in there. A clear business
opportunity, and they're only 12 teams
at this point in the NFL. But once
again, the NFL owners are kind of
dragging their feet. They're like, "Uh,
we don't really want to expand. You
know, maybe we'd be open to the Chicago
Cardinals." they're kind of struggling.
If the ownership group that owns them
were to sell, maybe we would allow them
to be moved, but you know, go talk to
them.
>> And I really don't think this is like a
business decision of we don't want more
people taking our pie. I think they sort
of recognize that there could be more
money made if you have more cities. But
it was more that the NFL owners at this
point are a tight-knit fraternity of
people who all think the same way, who
respect the game largely, who owned the
teams when they were massively
lossmaking. And so they kind of don't
want to let anyone into their club even
if it would be good for business. And
the NFL as we know it today is a
business. But at that point in history,
it was really like each of these teams
are kind of on their own island. They're
deeply competitive against other
players. They don't think of those
people as fellow employees of the
league. It's more like we each have our
own club, but the owners of each club
sort of have this thing with each other,
this fraternal bond.
>> They're willing to submit to this league
first mindset because they know it's
good for all of them. But that doesn't
mean that they want to expand or change
things. And David, I am excited we are
finally here. The birth of the American
Football League.
>> The AFL.
>> Yes. Their competition with the NFL and
really the era of national TV contracts.
This is the story of how the NFL became
the league that we know today.
>> Let's go. So, the story goes that one of
the potential new professional football
team investors, a gentleman named Lamar
Hunt, who was a young heir to a very
large Dallas, Texas oil fortune, kept
trying to talk to Bert Bell, the NFL, do
anything he could to get an expansion
team or buy the Cardinals. He just wants
to own a football team. Yep. So, he's
flying back from seeing the Cardinals
and having been rebuffed and he has a
Eureka moment on the plane. He's been
hearing that there are all these other
people who want to buy the Cardinals,
too, and get in line and this person in
this city and that person in that city.
And Lamar says, "Wait a minute. I don't
need the NFL. I don't need the
Cardinals. I've got a list of all these
other wealthy people who also want to
have professional football teams. Why
don't I call them and we'll start our
own league?
>> Yes. And thus begins the most successful
attempt to challenge the NFL
>> by far. So in August 1959, he and
several other owners form the American
Football League with six teams soon to
become eight. the Dallas Texans, Boston
Patriots, Buffalo Bills, Houston Oilers,
Miami Dolphins, New York Titans, soon to
be changed to the New York Jets, the
Denver Broncos, the LA Chargers, and the
Oakland Raiders. You've probably heard
of most of those teams.
>> Yes, this one ended very differently
than the AAFC did.
>> Very, very differently. So, at first,
Bell and the NFL,
>> they're sort of trying to be pretend
supportive until it's legit threatening.
Yep. But then in 1959, right after the
new AFL announces that they're going to
start their league and commence
operations, Bert Bell dies suddenly. And
so once again, just like back with the
AFC,
the league is in crisis and forced to
act. And unlike the AFC, things are
going to be a little different this time
because of the television aspect.
>> Yes. And this is all being led by, you
mentioned Lamar Hunt, who was the Dallas
Texans owner.
>> People might know them better as the
Kansas City Chiefs today.
>> Yes.
>> So Hunt, he's been studying the NFL. He
knows about the league first mentality.
He's also been studying baseball. He's
been meeting with baseball owners,
including Branch Ricky of Brooklyn
Dodgers and Jackie Robinson fame, who at
that point in time was out of Major
League Baseball and was trying to start
a third independent league.
>> Independent baseball league.
>> A third independent baseball league.
Yes. With some pretty radical ideas,
really borrowing from the NFL and the
league first mentality. He wanted to
embrace television in this new baseball
league and have a radical solution where
all the clubs in the league would share
all of the revenue from a television
deal.
>> Pretty crazy.
>> So Lamar Hunt and the new American
football league, the AFL, they take this
cast aside idea from baseball, and they
run with it. Hunt says, "We'll just
centrally negotiate one national
television contract for the entire AFL
and then we'll split the revenue
completely equally amongst all the
teams." This is like the epitome of the
league first mentality. It'll be great
for us and it'll help us compete with
the NFL.
>> And in some ways, it's easy for the
Upstart to do this in counterposition
cuz they have no existing TV contracts,
but they do kind of get laughed out of
the room. They go to the TV networks
with this and each of the TV networks
are like, "Oh, cool idea, but like who
cares about your league? No one's gonna
watch this. So, we hear your pitch. We
understand that this is very innovative
and breakthrough and very different than
what the different NFL teams are doing,
and we don't really care that much."
>> And the two major networks at the time,
CBS and NBC, had deals with NFL teams.
But there was another upstart TV network
out there, ABC,
and they were the perfect match. So,
Hunt goes to ABC, and they find a young
executive there. ABC doesn't even have a
sports division at this point in time,
but a young executive within ABC named
Rune Arage.
>> This is probably the fourth episode
we've talked about Run Arlage on.
>> What a legend. So Run would ultimately
become Bob Iger's mentor and Bob Iger
would rise through the ABC sports ranks
in the beginning of his career before
taking over Cap Cities and then
obviously all of Disney. So this is
Run's big opportunity. He sees it's
obvious at this point in time in the
late 50s that nationally televised
football games there's demand for it.
>> This is actually shocking. Like I know
to everyone right now we're like well of
course. But it used to be the case that
Sunday afternoons kind of had a hole in
their schedule. Like CBS had no good
programming and so that's why they would
originally agree to like sure we'll
broadcast some NFL games. But no one
expected the American public in their
living rooms to take to football as an
event as an entertainment form delivered
over the air to the living room the way
that it did. And so the NFL sort of
rebranded Sundays in America and turned
it into a completely different way that
people spend their time. And that was
shocking.
>> Well, and with those early NFL deals, it
was like those were individual deals
that teams made with networks and local
stations. So it was like a local thing.
It wasn't Football Sunday. It wasn't a
national event,
>> right?
>> This was the first nationwide
networkwide contract. the networks now
had signal that people did want to
behave in this way and they could feel
safe sort of signing business deals and
pursuing this because even though it
wasn't what they expected, turns out
there is demand for this product.
>> Yeah. So ABC signs a leaguewide 5-year
TV rights deal with the American
Football League for $8.5 million over
five years. It was by far far the single
biggest sports rights TV deal in history
at the time.
>> $1.3 million to the league per year.
>> And that was before the league had
played a single game. So here we are now
in January 1960 back to the NFL. They
don't have a commissioner. Their upstart
rivals the AFL who haven't played a game
yet. They have a multi-million dollar
contract,
>> an $8.5 million five-year TV deal with a
national network that the NFL doesn't
have. This is a real existential crisis.
And unlike last time where they're like,
"Okay, great. We'll just draft one of
our own Burbell owner of the
Philadelphia Eagles to come in and lead
us through this." They can't agree on a
new commissioner. So, it takes 11 days
and 23 separate votes of the NFL
ownership groups in a total knockdown
dragout negotiation. There's multiple
camps backing multiple candidates.
>> Yeah. The NFL has just gotten too big.
Each of the owners has too many of their
own interests to argue for. They're in
dire need of something or some one to
unify them. Indeed, by the end of the
process, none of the original candidates
are still in it,
>> right? So, in some ways, it's a tough
position to be in because all the most
qualified people are out. So, you kind
of have to pick someone that nobody
hates but probably won't be very good.
>> But fortunately for the NFL, they were
very, very, very wrong about that.
>> Lucky. Better to be lucky than good.
>> Yes. They choose as the compromised
darkhorse candidate, 33-year-old
general manager of the Los Angeles Rams,
former public relations intern, Compton
College graduate Pete Rosselle to be the
new young commissioner of this league in
crisis
>> and create the NFL that we know today.
>> And it was totally brilliant. I mean, a
Roselle grows into this just incredible
leader, visionary who does so many
things that we're going to enumerate now
for the league, for the game, for
television, for America. But it was so
not the owner's intention. They had to
go to this compromised candidate and
this young person who most people hadn't
heard of. Anybody else they were
considering would have been of a
different generation, wouldn't have
understood the new America in the late
50s and early 60s. Like these were all
old folks who were running the league at
this point in time. But Pete, nobody
better embodied everything about America
in the 50s and 60s. Like young families,
suburbs, West Coast, Los Angeles,
television, PR, advertising.
>> Yes. Coming out of the PR background was
the perfect positioning for him cuz he
knew that every foot that we have to put
forward has to be really polished. We
got to stop doing things that are
confusing or cannibalizing each other or
send mixed messaging or perhaps put a
bad taste in Americans mouth. And we
need to figure out the very best media
strategy, the very best strategy to make
it so all the newspapers and all the TV
stations talk about us all the time. The
NFL and our teams and our players need
to be on the lips of Americans as much
as possible. and as GM of the Rams for
only two or three years, the Rams were
not a successful team on the field even
during his tenure. But he makes them
into the most profitable team in the
league. They actually start making a lot
of money cuz he gets it right. They're
in the second biggest TV market in
America in LA, a very wide
geographically spread out market where
people want to watch football games on
TV.
>> He opens up a Rams merchandise store. He
partners with Roy Rogers, Inc. The actor
Roy Rogers had like a white label
merchandise brand to bring actual high
quality branded Rams jerseys, hats,
mugs, etc. That becomes a huge revenue
line for the Rams that nobody else has.
So, he's got the right background here
and he comes in. This is pretty crazy. I
mean, this is a very volatile, charged
situation with a lot of elder and
opinionated folks around the league that
he's going to have to deal with. And
within a year, he completely changes the
NFL. So, the first thing he does when he
comes in as commissioner is he ratifies
an expansion plan for the NFL to meet
the AFL. Remember, one of the big
reasons why Hunt and the AFL owners
started the league in the first place is
they wanted to bring pro football to
more cities. The NFL was dragging its
feet. Just like back with the AFC, now
they realize they got to go meet the
enemy on the field where they are. So,
the plan is to expand to both Dallas and
Houston immediately to meet the AFL
there in Texas.
>> Oh, and meet Lamar Hunt headto head
right on his own turf. I mean, he's
leading the AFL effort and the idea of
you're just going to open up shop and
say, "H, we're going to give away the
franchise to a new owner of the Cowboys
right here in your backyard."
>> Yep. Right down the street. Speaking of
proximity, and right down the street,
the next move that Rosselle makes,
remember, he's from LA, he gets the
importance of media, advertising,
everything. At this point in time, the
league offices were in Philadelphia. Cuz
Bert Bell was in Philadelphia and he had
been the owner of the Eagles. He's like,
"Philad
is not the place where we can run the
modern NFL."
>> And Bert ran in a very idiosyncratic
way, too. I mean, he had obviously no
computer system, but like it was post-it
notes and phone calls is how the NFL
ran. Like just not a professional
organization.
>> Oh, yeah. Famously, the stacked
scheduling. He would do it with dominoes
on his kitchen table.
So Rosel's like, "No, this is not going
to work. We're going to move league
headquarters to New York, to Manhattan,
first to Rockefeller Center, and then to
Park Avenue, where the league is to this
day. We need to be right there next to
the television industry, next to the
media industry, and just as important,
next to the advertising industry. Yes,
>> these are relationships we got to
cultivate with Madison Avenue." After he
moves the headquarters to New York,
Rosselle contracts the Elias Sports
Bureau, which did professional
statistics for Major League Baseball.
The NFL up to this point didn't have
professional statistics arms that would
distribute game stats and box scores out
to all the newspapers across the
country.
>> The only way anybody's going to write
about us and give us space on the sports
page is if we make their job easy and
put the stats right in their hands every
day. Speaking of writing about the NFL
and publishing, the other thing that
Roselle knows is, especially with a game
like the NFL, which is a weekly drama,
it's not just about like baseball with
getting the daily box scores in the
newspaper, you also got to create human
stories and arcs and mythology around
the game. And so he intentionally
cultivates a tight relationship with
Time Inc. and specifically Sports
Illustrated. And over the course of the
60s, Sports Illustrated really becomes
the major advocate for the new modern
game of the NFL. So much so that in
1963, just three short years later,
Sports Illustrated names Pete Roselle it
sportsman of the year, the first ever
non-athlete that it had ever named
sportsman of the year. Like, think about
that. the commissioner of the league
being named sportsman of the year. That
is just a huge mindset shift.
>> We should also say the end of the 50s,
beginning of the 60s, you know,
baseball's still a dominant sport in the
US. The dominant football franchises are
college football franchises. The NFL's
still an underdog and now they're being
challenged by this new upstart. So,
they're sort of squeezed in the middle
where like people don't care enough yet,
but they also have a competitive threat.
And so Roselle is having to do some
innovative things. David, didn't he like
hire writers in-house at the NFL to
craft the story lines and then send
those to all the reporters who like were
too busy to actually go to NFL games cuz
they didn't respect the NFL enough. But
maybe if we send them the stories, then
they'll tweak them a little bit and
publish them.
>> Famously, he did this starting back when
he was with the Rams, even when he was a
PR intern there. He would just write the
stories for the reporters which one
ensured that they would actually get in
the papers but two he could control and
craft the narrative. Man, you can
totally still see this to this day in
the NFL this ethos. It was so important
and strategically advantaged for them.
The NFL keeps such a tight grip on the
narrative and all this starts with
Roselle. One other thing that he does
immediately after taking over and moving
headquarters to New York that would end
up paying huge huge huge dividends is he
also starts cultivating political
relationships and influence.
>> Yes. So this is a perfect lead into what
happens in 1961 right after Roselle is
on the job that would change the face of
football forever. So, it's obvious to
Rosselle once the AFL signs their big
deal with ABC that that's the path
forward.
>> Their $1.3 million a year deal,
>> the leaguewide revenue sharing national
deal with the national network. Now,
this is not how the NFL operates at this
point.
>> Nope.
>> Roselle corrals all the NFL owners and
gets them to realize that the NFL has to
do the same thing. They have to give up
their individual TV rights. They have to
pull together and fight the AFL. So
finally, after wrangling and politicking
with the ownership group.
>> And the reason there's politicking is
because Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and
Baltimore actually will end up losing
money in the short term on this because
Rosella is pitching on, I'm going to go
negotiate us a big group deal. And
they're all three saying, "We already
have very good deals locally. We're very
popular teams. were in great football
cities. Uh, no. But ultimately, they do
say yes. And it really like speaks to
the thing that has made the NFL
successful, which is saying no to
growing my slice of the pie to grow the
greater pie.
>> So, Roselle goes and negotiates with
CBS, which was the dominant network both
in the country and had the majority of
the individual team NFL deals. He
negotiates a 2-year
deal with CBS at $4.65
million in rights per year to be shared
equally among the teams.
>> Over 3x the AFL deal.
>> A huge shot across the bow to the AFL.
Fortunately and unfortunately, they
immediately encounter political pressure
in response to this. This triggers the
Department of Justice to start an
antitrust violation process against the
NFL. This is like a clear use of
monopoly power.
>> Well, this is the very first question
where you say, well, what is a monopoly
and what is antirust and what is the NFL
and what are the teams?
>> And in this situation,
>> is the NFL the business or are the teams
the business? Right?
>> If the teams are the business, then yes,
this is antitrust. If the NFL is the
business,
>> no, this is one entity acting on behalf
of itself. There's no collusion. There's
no monopoly. Plus, you know, in this
particular situation, they actually are
in a competitive landscape against the
AFL. So, there's strong argument to be
made that this is not antirust. That
argument does not carry the day.
>> No. So pretty immediately the courts
strike down this deal and there's about
I think a 1 to two month period where
it's all in limbo and this is where the
Kennedy relationships come in clutch for
Roselle and the NFL. So both the
president and Bobby Kennedy in Congress
whip up enough support to pass through
new congressional legislation, a new
congressional act specifically to
advantage the NFL and to allow for
national sports contracts on a
leaguewide basis. It's called the Sports
Broadcasting Act. It ends up getting
passed towards the end of 1961,
the day after the bill is passed and
signed by John F. Kennedy. He literally
hosts a party at the White House for the
NFL,
which is like just tells you everything
you need to know right there. Pete
Roselle, all the owners, they are
invited to the White House to celebrate
this new antitrust exemption that has
been passed through Congress to allow
them to negotiate this landmark deal
because the president wants to watch his
football.
>> It's that. But Roselle also makes the
strong case that this is good for
America for a game that is growing in
popularity and a game that unites
communities. They're really starting to
lean into this idea that this brings a
lot of people together in a city. It is
a shining example of teamwork and a
shining example of hard work and
celebrating sportsmanship. And this is a
great thing that we should spread to
more of America and make it easier for
more people to consume. They're starting
to make arguments about the economy
around, you know, it's good for people
to have gathering points both at
stadiums but around stadiums with hotels
for people to throw parties at their
houses. All of this is goodness. And if
you like the American economy, you
should let us have a national TV
contract for the NFL.
>> Yep. And at this point in time, I think
a lot of those arguments hold water.
>> Yep.
>> This actually was driving a lot of
commerce for the nation. Totally. A fun
aside, I did the math on uh that $4.65
million per year deal. That value of
that contract would grow 2500x over the
next 62 years.
>> Wow. Did you look at what it would be
inflation adjusted?
>> Yes, inflation adjusted, it's about
250x.
>> Still pretty good. So, on the back of
this landmark TV deal, Roselle does two
other really brilliant things.
First comes as kind of a another
accident. So the league every year sold
the rights to the NFL championship game
to make a movie out of it.
>> And they were always like kind of bland.
>> Yeah. They were kind of hokey, like a
really rudimentary highlight reel type
thing. In 1962,
they get a bid for the rights. The
bidding is a sealed auction. They get a
bid that comes in from a guy named Ed
Sable who was a suburban dad in
Philadelphia who liked to make home
movies, particularly home movies of his
son Steve's high school football games.
This guy Ed bids on the rights to make
the NFL championship movie for 1962. So,
the bids are unsealed and Ed had done a
little homework. He found out that the
company that had won the past few years
only paid $2,500 for the rights. So he's
like, "Well, I can bid $5,000." He wins
the auction and Roselle's like, "Uh, who
is this guy like with no experience?
What's happening?" So Roselle goes to
visit him and Ed pitches Pete on doing
something completely revolutionary for
the 1962 championship. He wants to make
it like an actual movie. Not a hokey
sports movie. A real movie with
montages, with cuts, with professional
Hollywood quality cinematography,
>> slow motion, voice over,
>> everything. Sideline cameras, really a
passion project to make this an
incredible piece of content.
Roselle's kind of like, well, I mean,
that sounds great. I don't know if you
can do it, but it's like, what have I
got to lose? So he lets Sable go with
it. And the movie he makes totally
revolutionizes sports video content. I
think this is another thing that we just
take for granted today. It's like air
and water. That sports content, sports
video is not just like a fixed camera at
the 50 yard line that pans back and
forth. Not only does this film get great
acclaim, but it's a revolution to go and
create recordings of sports not to be
broadcast. The broadcasters weren't
recording tapes of everything they ever
broadcast. So, there's a lot of like
baseball games and stuff that have been
lost to history because there was no
recording of it made. Meanwhile, the NFL
for this championship game and for other
things that Ed Sable and his crew would
film after this, it is high quality
film, not videotape recording, not
overtheair broadcast, film stock
recording from a bunch of different
angles and some at high frame rate
cameras and some at 24 frames per second
cameras. So, you get this smooth,
beautiful slow motion. It provides this
unbelievable archive of the game for
which other sports have no archive.
>> Yeah. Well, and that's just the video
aspect to it, but there's also something
that Sable gets intuitively is the same
thing that Roselle gets, the narrative.
It's not just about showing what
happened. It's about telling a story.
And it just completely meshes with
Roselle's philosophy and what's going to
carry the NFL into what it becomes
today. We can't just show these games.
We have to tell a story. This has to be
drama. This has to be made for TV
content
>> and it has to be super polished and it
has to be super controlled. And Ed
Sable's little outfit that would become
NFL Films is the ultimate embodiment of
Roselle's mindset. I don't think
Rosselle could have created this on his
own. But when you watch anything from
NFL films, it has Pete Rosel's
personality oozing all over it in terms
of what we are creating is entertainment
and polish. So for two years they do the
championship game and then in 1965 Ed
comes to Pete with the idea of like,
hey, let's make this a core in-house
division of the NFL. and they start NFL
films.
>> Yeah, you should buy my little film
company.
>> What a radical idea. The NFL should
become a movie producer. This is huge.
Remember, there's no ESPN. There's not
going to be an ESPN for 15 years. All of
this content that we're just bombarded
with today, it all starts here with the
Sables and with NFL films.
>> Yeah. There's a couple interesting
things to note, too. Once Roselle
greenlights NFL films, he basically
says, "Okay, there's a lot of people in
my organization that might want to do
something with this at some point, but
we want to be handsoff. I just don't
want your P&L to ever go negative. So,
you can run as a break even business as
long as you're fulfilling the mission of
promoting the very best of the NFL and
helping to create lore and story. And
they build this completely full-fledged
film studio that is actually the
customer who buys the most film from
Kodak other than the US Army in the
entire country. Super high volume film
studio because they start sending full
film crews to every single NFL game
every single week. And it's this
unbelievable operation to then overnight
mail or drive themselves back all this
footage to start editing it right away
so that they can use it for what we will
talk about soon but for many purposes.
>> This is what's so amazing. They did all
this as this investment as a labor of
love and passion on the Sable's part. On
Rosselle's part though the motivation as
you were saying it's not about making
money. It's about raising the stature of
the league. Yes. About putting the most
highest gloss sheen on the product that
we are producing and the product is the
game on the field.
>> They couldn't even foresee how important
this would become that we'll put a
slight pin on and come back to in just a
minute.
>> Yeah.
>> The other thing that Roselle does in the
next couple years is the merch idea, the
store that he was doing back with the
Rams. He brings that in-house on a
leaguewide basis and starts NFL
enterprises. again totally radically. He
goes to all the owners, all the teams
and says, "Whatever you're doing on
merch, whatever you're doing on branded
opportunities, you are no longer doing
that individually. We're going to bring
it centrally, collectively, in-house
under NFL Enterprises. We're going to
standardize the merch, the jerseys, the
hats.
>> We're going to set a quality bar
>> so that anytime a fan, because it's all
about the relationship with the fans,
it's like a funnel. Bring them in from
TV, get them to the game, get them to
buy merch. They're just deepening the
relationship. They have to have a great
experience. They can't get some shoddy
pennant from the Giants that looks like
X and somebody else gets something from
the Cardinals that looks like Y. Like,
it's got to all be the same. And you got
to remember the way that the NFL is
structured, Roselle is not their boss.
In fact, he works for the owners. So,
they're all making money and he's going
to them saying, "Hey, just like TV, I
want you to give up the rights to make
money on your own, even though some of
you are doing a pretty good job at it
and we're going to do this thing as a
league and we're going to cut it
equally. So, I don't care if your team's
bad and their team's good. We're going
to all the revenue is going to be equal,
just like TV." And he's so good at
playing the politician with the owners
that they keep agreeing to give up
revenue generating parts of their P&L
for the league to take over on their
behalf.
>> Yeah. I mean, like, let's take the
Browns and Packers. How many pennants do
you think the Browns sold, you know, in
the city of Cleveland with as big and
storied as the Browns are versus the
Packers in a town like Green Bay?
>> What is Green Bay? something like the
200th largest media market in the United
States and they've got this NFL team.
>> And what Roselle is saying is just like
TV, I don't care how much merchandise
you sell, the Packers are getting the
same check from enterprises as the
Browns are.
>> Yep. We should probably take a 60-cond
aside, but the unique structure of the
Packers is totally amazing. They are
owned by a publiclyowned nonprofit
corporation. And so what that means is
rather than one individual who could
just decide to uproot the team and leave
them, the ownership of the team lies in
this entity that is theoretically a
publicly owned entity, anytime they want
to raise money, they go and sell more
shares, more stock in the Green Bay
Packers. And there's hundreds of
thousands of people who have bought this
stock. So there's this very distributed
ownership group of the Packers,
>> not with any expectation of financial
return, literally just so they can hold
a piece of the Packers
>> or control because nobody can own more
than a certain number of shares. But
this mechanism has kept the Packers in
Green Bay even while capitalist forces
and individual whims of billionaires
have moved many other teams around.
>> Yeah, it's such an amazing little quirk.
Have you ever been to Lambeau Field?
>> I have not. I really want to. Uh, I went
once, not for a game, but I was at a
wedding in Green Bay, and I was like,
"Oh my gosh, I got to go see the field."
And so I took a run. Green Bay is this
very quaint little little town in
Wisconsin. And uh there's this giant NFL
stadium in the middle of it.
>> It's wild. And for a lot of the analysis
we'll do later, the data comes from the
Green Bay Packers annual report because
no other team publishes their P&L, but
the Packers do. Okay, so the last thing
Rosselle does on this miracle run in his
first couple years as commissioner is he
creates the Pro Football Hall of Fame in
Canton in 1963. Ah, so cool. I've never
been. We got to go. We should do an
acquired field trip.
>> We should.
>> That would be fun. So there's this
amazing flywheel. Like it really is like
the Disney story that he gets the most
important thing. Everything he's doing
is through the lens of how do we raise
the stature of the league? Not a team,
but the league, the NFL as a league. How
do we add higher gloss sheen to the
product
>> to the shield, one might say?
>> Exactly. Exactly. And his logic is doing
that will attract more fan interest and
deeper fan interest. And the more and
deeper fan interest that you attract,
the more TV dollars you're going to
make. And this is revolutionary, too.
Back in the day, you were limited to the
number of seats you had in your stadium.
So, if you're like a major league
baseball team in a major market where
you're selling out your stadium, there's
not a strong incentive to keep adding
sheen to the product. You're at maximum
revenue capacity,
>> right?
>> But with the NFL and now with the new TV
model, there is no ceiling to revenue
capacity.
>> Yep. So more fan interest, more TV
dollars, more TV dollars shared evenly
amongst all the teams raises the level
of play equally as the overall level of
play goes up as long as the competitive
balance stays intact. Well, that
improves the product. Yep.
>> Which then adds more sheen, which then
drives more fan interest, and it becomes
this amazing flywheel. And there's so
much more to the story, but that's the
core of it. That idea is what leads to
what's the current annual national
revenue for the NFL? Like 10 billion, 11
billion
>> that comes through shared agreements is
11 billion. And then there's another six
or so that comes from local revenue that
teams individually generate.
>> Yep. That's per year,
>> right?
>> Just to be clear, that is per year. It
is this flywheel that makes the NFL
teams collectively worth something like
$140 billion today.
>> So remember that initial landmark deal
that they got the antitrust exemption
from Congress for in 1961 for the 1962
season. That was two years. The AFL is
locked up for 5 years. The NFL gets to
renegotiate every two years. Roselle
opens up the bidding to all three
networks. Of course, CBS wins again,
another 2-year, $28.2
million bid, $14.1 million per year, up
from $4.6 two years earlier. So, every
single team in the league now gets $1
million
before the season even starts.
>> A cool 3x from the last deal he
negotiated two years before.
>> Pretty freaking incredible. and also
just says so much about the commerce
that the NFL was driving. Like the TV
networks were getting a great deal here.
These were landmark contracts, but the
attention, the viewership that the games
got and then the advertising units that
were sold and then the ultimate products
that were moved as a result of those ad
units. This was a steal.
>> And you could argue that the TV networks
were getting a great deal for many,
many, many more years. And I think at
the end I want to discuss are they
getting a good deal today? But everyone
was getting a pretty good deal here
because the fan base was growing so much
more quickly and the number of viewers
was growing so much more quickly than
these deals could get renegotiated.
Well, it just takes time for people to
realize the power of a new medium. Okay,
so Roselle,
unbelievable first 5 years in office.
literally cannot imagine executing
better. The NFL going from major crisis,
death of its owner, commissioner, Bert
Bell, to the place it's in in the
mid60s. Incredible. What about the AFL?
What happened to them? They're doing
pretty great, too. They're thriving, and
it's all because of television. Even
though the NFL is doing great, there's
still a lot of demand for football on
TV. And the AFL, to put a finer point on
what you're saying, they had a shoot the
moon strategy. They wanted to come out
of the gate with a bang. They wanted to
burn real hot and under the right
circumstances, have that go really well
for them. And they had the exact right
circumstances. It was the boom of TV in
America. So they could do things like go
sign Joe Nameoth for the Jets to a
gigantic contract and just have New York
and half of America fall in love with
him and turn him into a superstar that
benefited the league.
>> The Jets in the AFL, formerly the
Titans, they're owned by Sunny Worblin.
He was one of the co-heads of MCA, the
big agency,
>> as discussed on our interview with
Michael Oitz.
>> Indeed. Indeed. So, just like Roselle
gets what's going on in the NFL side,
Sunny, he's the media guy for the AFL,
and he totally gets it, too. So, Sunny
sees the big second NFL deal come across
in 1964. All the other AFL owners are
like despairing. The NFL just got this
huge deal. How are we ever going to
compete? They're going to have so much
more money. We'll never be able to sign
any players. This is the end. Sunny's
like, "Oh, no, no, no. We're gonna be
just fine. We're gonna be great because
the NFL did this deal with CBS." Well,
there are two other networks out there.
There's ABC, who the AFL has their
current deal with, and then there's also
NBC. And so, there are two biders out
there who are going to be very, very,
very sad that they just lost out on the
most compelling content on television,
professional football. And who's there
to give it to them? The AFL.
>> Yep. We'll take second place when uh
there's a bunch of sad people willing to
throw money at second place.
>> And throw a lot of money. So, the very
next week after Roselle and CBS
announced their deal, the AFL and NBC
announced that they've just signed a new
5-year, $37.5
million deal. So, bigger overall dollar
number for a longer number of years.
Even though it's like less than half the
per year amount.
>> Yeah, it's seven and a half million
dollars per year, but by this point in
time, the NFL has 14 teams. The AFL
still only has eight. So on a per team
basis, it's pretty close.
>> For a 5-year-old upstart league, this is
a big success. So just like you were
saying, right on the heels of that,
Sunny and the Jets, they know what to do
with that money. They turn around and
they give a huge chunk of it to Broadway
Joe Nameoth. And probably a lot of
listeners are going to know the name Joe
Nameoth.
>> I honestly I only knew it because I saw
him on a Brady Bunch episode. It's like
this cultural touch point where Joe
Nameoth was so big that he actually
appeared on a Brady Bunch episode. And
that's super unusual for a sports star
in that day.
>> Dude, I mean, he had his own talk show.
It's not just that he was on the Brady
Bunch. So everything we were talking
about a minute ago with NFL films and
Roselle and all the brilliance there and
how it was so important and this
realization that football and the NFL
would be made for TV. Joe Nameoth was
the first modern cultural celebrity
athlete.
>> He's also a heartthrob. There's like
millions of teenage women in America
like throwing themselves.
>> That's exactly what I was going to say.
He was the first professional athlete
that appealed equally to men, women, and
children.
>> That's a great point.
>> So, he comes and he's playing in New
York, right, in the biggest market, the
brightest lights, right there with the
TV industry, right there with the
advertising industry. He knew exactly
how to play it. He wore white cleats.
Everybody else wore black high tops.
Famously, he wore a mink coat on the
sidelines. Just like amazing, amazing.
like he starred in movies in the off
season. Broadway Joe was it.
>> Well, continuing that thread from
earlier where I was talking about how
CBS had this like hole in their schedule
and everyone was skeptical that sports
would fill it. Everyone thought sports
were like a very male thing and
especially as sort of brutish of a sport
as football. They didn't think it would
do well, certainly not in prime time,
but not even sort of in the Sunday
afternoon slot because, you know, it's
just going to attract the husbands to
come and watch it. And it doesn't have a
family appeal. And Joe Nameoth is the
first big example where everyone
realized, oh, football totally can be
for everyone.
>> Yep.
>> All right, listeners. Well, now is a
great time to thank some new friends of
the show. We are very excited about
Sierra. Yes, we're pumped to be working
with Brett, Clay, and the whole team
over there. And a fun fact for this NFL
episode, Sierra works with Wilson, the
official exclusive manufacturer of NFL
footballs since 1941. 1941. I know it's
so cool. But wait, David, we should
explain why we are so excited about
Sierra first. So, one thing we've
learned from making acquired is that a
great company is often defined by its
customer experience.
>> Yes. But of course, always being great
is hard. Talking to customers is
expensive. And while websites and apps
are great, they're also slow and clunky.
Your customers have to learn them, they
don't learn you. Sierra changes all
that. They build customerf facing AI
agents that can do an insane range of
things. finding the perfect home,
picking TV shows, originating mortgages,
shipping a sofa, returning shoes,
authenticating patients, ordering credit
cards, saving subscribers from
canceling, and on and on and on. In just
two years, they've become the leading
conversational AI platform with hundreds
of incredible companies like ADT, Clear,
Minted, Ramp, Redfin, Rocket Mortgage,
Safelight, SiriusXM, Wayfair, and yes,
Wilson trusting Sierra for their
customer experiences. Sierra is powerful
enough for the Fortune 1000, including
heavily regulated industries like
healthcare and financial services, but
it works great for businesses of any
size. With Sierra, you can deploy it
everywhere within weeks. So, think on
the phone, in chat, SMS, WhatsApp, chat,
GPT, email, all in over 30 languages.
And with their unique and insanely
aligned outcomes-based pricing model,
you only pay for when Sierra delivers a
tangible business outcome like resolving
a customer ticket or completing an
upsell.
>> Yep. Ben and I think so highly of Sierra
that we even invested in the company
>> that we did. So to find out how you can
build better, more human customer
experiences with AI, visit
sierra.ai/acquired
and just tell them that Ben and David
sent you. So the name assigning is the
first big postTV money contract signing
in the AFL NFL war, but it starts a
whole wave now of competition between
the two leagues to go sign all the
college superstars coming out. So it
gets pretty crazy. At one point, the NFL
starts what they refer to as a
babysitting program. This is literally a
kidnapping program where they will send
agents to top college athletes who are
seniors about to graduate and literally
keep them out of the hands of AFL teams,
not allow them to sign contracts and
pressure them into signing with the NFL
first. They just put them up in hotel
rooms and then they don't tell anyone
where they took them. So, nobody can
tell the AFL team rep, "This is where
you can find the star." It's just like
you got him captive till you sign him.
The interesting thing, too, is that the
leagues aren't respecting each other's
drafts. So, it doesn't matter if you
draft someone in your league. I'm
signing him to a contract in mine and
that contract is valid in the United
States. I don't care what your draft
says.
>> This is the Battlefront. It's with
rookies and the draft. What they don't
do yet is start citing each other's
players. That's like hitting the nuclear
button option,
>> right?
>> So, they're keeping this to rookies, but
still like pretty quickly contracts for
rookies get into the close to million
dollar range, which is way more than the
veterans are making. It starts causing
all these problems. And by the beginning
of 1966,
the owners group in the NFL realizes
that, hey, the AFL isn't going away, and
this is not going to be like last time.
We're going to have to play ball with
these guys, literally. And it begins a
super delicate dance of they're my sworn
enemy. But there's some owners who see
the writing on the wall very early and
say we're going to have to combine these
and it's probably not actually legal for
us to combine them, but we're going to
kill each other if we both keep going.
So what do we do? And so it begins this
multi-tiered negotiation where certain
people at the top don't know they're
negotiating. Meanwhile, certain owners
are forming side deals with other people
who own teams in the other league. It's
this fascinating spy game.
>> Oh, this is so fun. What happens next is
like a Godfather film. So, a few of the
most influential owners come to Roselle
in 1966 and they say, "The way things
are going with the AFL. We're not going
to beat them. This draft situation with
the rookies is out of control. The
contracts we're paying. We're losing too
much money. This is going to kill the
league if we keep the war going. We got
to get to a truce, which that means
we're going to have to merge. So, we're
going to direct you, Roselle, to go
start merger negotiations with the AFL.
Roselle doesn't want to do it. He thinks
they can win. He wants to fight, but
he's like, "Okay, I work for you." One
of his superpowers, the way he's able to
achieve all of this is he really is good
at pleasing everybody, finding solutions
that work for everyone. And so he says,
"Okay, I'll move forward." So he drafts
the Cowboys GM in Dallas, guy named Tex
ShraMM, to secretly open negotiations
with Lamar Hunt. Lamar at this point has
moved the Texans to Kansas City where
they become the Chiefs.
>> Also, how great is it that the first
Cowboys owner is named Tex?
>> I know. So great. He was the GM. I don't
think he was the principal owner, but I
think he had an ownership stake. So Tex
approaches Lamar in early 1966,
says, "Hey, I'm the emissary of the NFL.
You know, Roselle sent me. I'm here to
talk merger, but we got to keep this
under wraps because if word gets out,
then like all hell's going to break
loose." So they start working,
discussing there. No notes. There's no
written notes. It's just like them
chatting with each other for a couple
months. as they start, the other owners
don't know about it.
>> Which is hard because when you're not
the designated representative, you can't
say, "I'm coming to you with something I
know will work." You're saying, "Hey,
enemy, I know you can't know for sure
that I can get this done, but you have
to trust me enough that I'm pretty sure
I know my fellow owners enough that they
would agree to this. So, if you and I
can kind of get close to agreeing to
something, then I can take it to them.
But this is all subject to them blowing
it up." Yes. Very delicate situation.
And especially as the war and the TV
money start escalating between the
leagues, the AFL owners, they decide,
"We need somebody who's going to kick
some ass for us." They draft, fellow
owner, head coach, GM of the Oakland
Raiders, Al Davis, to become the new
commissioner of the AFL.
>> All right. So, now we've got this cast
of characters to pay attention to. On
the NFL side, there's the commissioner,
Pete Roselle, and Dallas Cowboys GM, Tex
ShraMM. And on the AFL side, there's new
commissioner and Raiders owner, Al
Davis, and the Chiefs owner, Lamar Hunt.
And Lamar Hunt, of course, was the guy
who started the whole AFL in the first
place.
>> And Al Davis, legendary. There's a quote
about him in America's Game. Outside of
Oakland, it was not certain where Al
Davis would finish in a popularity
contest among Sharks, the Mumps, the
income tax, and himself. If the voters
were the other American League football
coaches, Davis would probably be third,
edging out the income tax in a thriller.
You can't trust Al Davis any further
than you can throw him. and he is the
perfect new head of the AFL in this war.
>> And basically the head just to go beat
him up in negotiation. I mean, at this
point, it's like, hey, we understand
we're in a negotiation. Just like go get
the best deal you can. And if you have
to piss everyone off such that you have
no working relationship with the rest of
the owners, Al Davis is the kind of guy
that's like, "Oh, I'm totally up for
that. That's fine if for the next 30
years everyone that I have to work with
hates me."
>> They don't let him know about the merger
negotiations. They don't actually want
him to negotiate. They just want him to
start a war
and improve their negotiating leverage.
>> I see.
>> In literally one of the most incredible
unforced errors of all time, the NFL
fires the first shot in the New War as
soon as Davis takes over. So in May
1966, the Giants in the NFL break the
gentleman's agreement. They go over and
they poach a veteran from the Bills in
the AFL. A kicker. Literally a kicker.
They start a war over a kicker.
>> And it makes sense. It's the Giants cuz
they're the most harmed here. I mean,
they have in their own city, the Jets
with Joe Nameoth.
>> Once this happens though, the other NFL
owners are just apoplelectic at Giants
owner Wellington Mara. They're like,
"You're throwing this all away over a
kicker." So, the owner of the Colts, the
quote, "God damn it, Mara. If you wanted
a kicker, why didn't you just ask me?
I'd have given you one."
So,
>> any of the 30 million Americans who play
fantasy football can relate to this
situation.
>> So, Davis gets the news that the
gentleman's agreement has been broken
and the kicker has been signed. the
kicker signing heard around the world
while he happens to be literally in the
middle of meeting with the Bill's owner
supposedly Davis. He just sits there in
his chair and he leans back and he
smiles and he says, "Well, we just got
our merger." And the Bills owner is
like, "What are you talking about?" And
Davis says, "Because now we're going to
go out and sign all of their players and
we will destroy them and they will come
begging to the table."
>> Some Dr. Evil right there.
>> Totally. That night, the New York Times
asks Davis for his comment on all this,
which by the way, you couldn't design
better drama, especially during the NFL
off season to like keep America
interested in football. Amazing. The New
York Times asks Davis to comment and he
responds, quote, "This is something I've
been aware of and I anticipated the
probability, but you don't make threats
at a time like this. Our answer will be
an action. This is not the time to
speak." Oo, I want to steal that word
for word for something in the future.
>> So, his first reaction, he doesn't
really want to go into allout war
because he knows that's going to end
badly for both sides. He wants to send a
targeted message like the equivalent of,
you know, a fish wrapped delivered on
the doorstep
>> or a horse's head in your bed.
>> Exactly. The horse's head that he
decides to send is he is going to target
Roselle's old team, the Rams, and he's
going to sign their quarterback away.
>> We just went from a kicker to a
quarterback. That escalated quickly.
>> Well, you're going to send a message.
You're going to come at the King. You
best not miss.
>> Yes.
>> So, within 3 days, the Raiders have
signed away veteran star quarterback for
the Rams, Roman Gabriel. And the NFL
makes another tactical error. They don't
respond to that. they don't come to the
table. So, a few days after that, Davis
does unleash allout war. Talk about
antitrust violations. He directs the GMs
of all the AFL teams to go out and sign
all of the quarterbacks in the NFL,
which to do this is an economically
negative move,
>> of course, which is why he didn't want
to do they're already making the maximum
amount you should be willing to pay them
for what they're bringing to your team
or likely close to it
>> and you're gonna have to pay them a lot
more to switch leagues. So Lamar Hunt of
course gets word of what's going on and
meanwhile he's in secret negotiations
with Tex and Roselle for a merger and
Hunt gets word from the Oilers from
their GM that Davis just instructed him
to go sign the 49ers quarterback and
Hunt is talking to the oil like no no no
this is too far stand down I'm canceling
Davis's orders don't go do this the
Oilers GM gets off the phone with Hunt
calls up Al Davis and says, "Hey, Lamar
just called me, heard about what we're
doing. He told me to stop." Davis
supposedly sits there for a second and
asks, "Did you give Lamar your word that
you wouldn't do it?" The Oilers GM says,
"Yes." Davis sits there again, thinks
about it, and says, "F it. Sign him
anyway."
So they do. The Oilers go sign the 49ers
quarterback. And that is what makes it
all work. So Davis hangs up with the
Oilers, calls Hunt, and he's like, "You
dumbass. Why on earth would you stop me
from doing this? I know you're working
on a merger. I am your best weapon that
you have. I am giving you leverage. Of
course, I need to do this."
>> Right? I'm not being insidiary against
you. This is a weapon for you.
>> Yes, I may be a thug, but I am your thug
in this case. So within a couple days,
it's all over. On Wednesday, June 8th,
1966, the merger agreement gets
announced in a press release. Unlike
with the AFC, this is a true merger. All
of the AFL teams will join all of the
NFL teams. Together, they promise to add
at least four totally new teams and
cities.
>> Right. So, there's 24 combined teams and
they promise to expand to 28 over the
next three, four years.
>> Yep. They announced that because of the
separate TV contracts on the AFL and the
NFL side, they will not begin a joint
season immediately. They'll let the new
AFL TV contract play out, which will go
through the 1969 season. The first fully
combined season will be in 1970,
but in the interim, they will start
hosting a new pro football world
championship game between the winners of
the two leagues starting in the 1966
season. And boy, that would be a super
event for television.
>> This officially called AFC NFC World
Championship game sounds like a doozy.
Sounds pretty cool to watch.
>> Some other points to the deal. There
will be a single common college draft
starting immediately. No more of these
separate drafts. No more babysitting. No
more ridiculous contracts, which the
players hate this, of course. Roselle
will remain the commissioner and Al
Davis is going to go back to running the
Raiders, which Davis is fine with.
That's all he really wanted. Anyway, not
announced but included. This I believe
only came out much much later. The AFL
franchises did collectively pay the NFL
owners $18 million to join the league
>> over a 20-year period.
>> Yes. This though was an enormous victory
for the AFL for two reasons. One, the
NFL obviously had the larger TV
contracts, so that's just like found
money right there. B, they had all the
apparatus. They had NFL films, NFL
Enterprises, etc. Everything.
>> And by the way, immediately, even before
they combined the leagues officially in
1970, they form AFL Films for that
three-year. I didn't know that. and NFL
Films hires twice as many people and
they go film every single AFL game too
starting immediately.
>> So those are both in themselves huge
reasons why paying only $18 million was
a win for the AFL. The even bigger
reason when the negotiation started
between ShraMM and Lamar, the NFL's
initial asking price was $50 million per
team from the AFL as franchise fees. So
to go from 50 million per team to 18
total, paid over 20 years, all thanks to
Al Davis. The AFL owners owed Al Davis a
big glass of champagne, shall we say.
>> That's an incredible leverage shift over
the course of the negotiations.
>> And it happened in like a couple months.
>> Yeah. There are some other interesting
deal points, too. One of them is that
the 18 million actually didn't go to all
the NFL teams. They went to the Giants
and the 49ers because those were the two
teams most affected by now having
another NFL team in their city.
>> Interesting. That makes a lot of sense
>> because the existence of this merger now
causes one of the league ownership rules
to be in violation, which is no two
teams can be in the same media market.
Well, we now have a problem and we need
to compensate you for that. And I think
the Giants actually got more because Joe
Nameoth was the other one in their city.
And so what you also start to see
because of this deal is the real
modernization of the NFL. They decided
that anyone with less than a 50,000 seat
stadium needs to change that. They said
that for what football has become after
this merger, modern NFL in America,
that's not a suitable place to play
football anymore. And so you either need
to build a new stadium or expand your
stadium. And then the other final thing
that is a consolation prize for the AFL
is that they actually got to bring their
records over. Whereas the AFC, I don't
think they did. I don't think those
counted as NFL records. I did find this
is linked in the show notes and our
sources. I kept reading about the NFL
records and the NFL rule book and the
and I was like, does this exist or is
this like theoretical? Every year the
NFL publishes a 1,000page PDF of all of
the historical everything, all the
scores, all the games.
>> Oh, that's awesome.
>> It being in PDF form makes it pretty
useless, but I assume it's a PDF of a
physical book that exists with all the
records in it. So, this announcement in
June of ' 66, you would sort of think,
okay, this now just clears the way. The
next few decades are just laid out in
front of us. There's one league. There's
no real competitors. what could possibly
challenge football? And the answer is
yet again, the law of the land in the
United States. So, in October,
Congress actually passed a law to allow
this merger and grant yet another
antitrust exemption. This time, Lynden
Johnson signed it into law. And you
might say, well, why did they need
another one? Well, the merger of two
completely different organizations that
were competitors, that's kind of a
different thing than allowing one
ownership group or one trade
organization to negotiate on behalf of a
bunch of sort of member teams. So, this
actually is a different antirust issue,
>> right? It's actual monopoly versus
collusion. The first one was collusion,
right? This is creating a monopoly. And
so Roselle and the NFL are calling on
all the favors they can get, but the
bill that will allow them to do this is
stuck in committee. And so here's the
paragraph out of America's Game.
Rosselle, seeking a way to break the log
jam, called his friend David Dixon to
see if he knew a North Louisiana
congressman on the committee. For
someone as sophisticated as Pete, he was
rather naive when it came to politics,
said Dixon. And so he eventually finds
his way to the house majority leader
Hailbogs who is an old fraternity
brother of Dixon at Tain and he said I
can find the votes for this. I'm going
to quote this again. Walking up the
stairs of the rotunda when the vote
looked like a sure thing. Riselle was
ever his usual humble self. Congressman
Bogs, I don't know how I can ever thank
you enough for this. This is a terrific
thing you've done. What do you mean you
don't know how to thank me? He said,
"New Orleans gets an immediate franchise
in the NFL." And Roselle says, "I'm
going to do everything I can to make
that happen." At that, Bogs stopped and
turned on his heels, heading back into
the committee room. Well, we could
always call off the vote while you
Roselle took two giant strides after
Bogs turned around him gently and said,
"It's a deal, Congressman. You'll get
your franchise."
>> Amazing. So, it's like how many
presidents and how many congressmen and
how many like the NFL requires this
perfect storm of post-war America,
technology, the growth of television,
all these innovations, all this flywheel
and also the repetitive cooperation of
the US government. So, once this passes
Congress and the merger is approved,
remember it won't actually happen until
1970. There's this little matter of the
world championship game. This super
matter. There had never been anything
like this before. This is the wholesale
invention of a new major sporting event
for the first time within the TV era.
Nothing like this had ever happened. The
World Series was created way before the
TV era.
>> Totally. And you mentioned before during
the Johnny Unitas game, the greatest
game ever played that that drew 40
million people and that was much earlier
in the TVification of America. It wasn't
really the NFL that we know. There's all
these other teams, there's all these
other markets. So, if we can sort of
tailor make a game for national
television as this entertainment event,
it can be much much more significant.
>> Not only that, these guys are smart.
They're smart business people. They're
smart media people. Even though the TV
contracts are already in place on the
NFL and the AFL side for their
respective seasons, including their
respective championship games, this is a
new game. There's no contract in place
yet for this. So, they rebid it the
rights to this world championship game
to all the networks. And CBS and NBC are
living because they've already got the
rights to the respective leagues. They
thought they both had a championship
game, but it turns out they both had a
semi-final.
>> So, what ends up happening, they both
feel like they can't bear to not win the
rights to broadcast this new game. They
each end up paying $1 million for the
rights to both broadcast it. So, this
game now is going to be broadcast to the
nation on both CBS and NBC. And in
addition to them each spending a million
dollars for the rights to this one game,
they also both pledge to spend $1
million each in promoting it in the
leadup to the game.
>> Wow.
>> This is unprecedented. There's never
been anything like this in media
history.
>> This ended up actually having a 79%
share of American TV, whatever Neielson
measures. So it's the share of all the
TVs that are turned on at this point
because it was on two networks.
>> Incredible. It ended up being watched
live by over 65 million people. Super
Bowl one at the LA Coliseum.
>> You can't call it that, David. This is
the AFL NFL World Championship game.
>> I apologize. the world championship game
at the LA Coliseum and in like such a
perfect symbol of the new world order,
the new media landscape. Largest
television event in history,
unprecedented, groundbreaking live in
the stadium. The LA Coliseum is pretty
big. It seats about 95,000 people. Only
63,000 people showed up live. There was
only twothirds attendance
>> live at the game and it didn't matter at
all.
>> When I tweeted about Super Bowl one,
some like pictures from it the other day
and I didn't realize you can see there's
an area of the stands where people
aren't sitting. I assumed it was like
too late or too early. That's like
during the game. They didn't fill it.
>> That's during the game.
>> Wow.
>> They didn't fill the stadium and
everybody got rich anyway. Okay, so a
few things leading up to this again.
Like god, they're so good. Rosselle,
they're just architecting all of this
live. So, they know this is an
incredible opportunity. Nothing has ever
happened like this before during the age
of TV. They're creating a television
event, whole cloth. So, they totally
lean into it. Media week. That is a
deliberate invention by Pete Rossell and
the NFL leading up to the Super Bowl.
All the crazy interviews, everything
that happens that we take for granted
right now, like that was intentional. It
was designed. It was created that way.
>> The commissioner's press conference the
Friday before the Super Bowl and it's
about league business. So there's all
this news that comes out about the NFL
and how it will be changing for the next
year right before the Super Bowl to draw
all this attention to the NFL right
before the Super Bowl.
>> And that's just the public facing stuff.
During the week leading up to the Super
Bowl, they host parties, they host
events, they host concerts, they host
experiences, not for the public, but for
their partners, for the TV partners, for
the advertisers, for the press. It's all
about adding the gloss and the sheen to
the people who are going to add the
gloss and the sheen. Literally Roselle's
directive to the NFL staff was he wants
every media person and partner leaving
the Super Bowl to be saying, "Man, this
is a lot better than the World Series."
>> It's great.
>> So great. The game itself, the Packers
end up destroying the Chiefs. The next
year in Super Bowl 2, the Packers again
beat down the Raiders. This time,
>> it is worth saying, wow, the dominance
of the Packers right around this time.
Vince Lombardi winning the first two
Super Bowls.
>> There's a reason it's called the
Lombardi Trophy now. It wasn't for Super
Bowl one or two. And then the one game
we will talk about here, Super Bowl
three.
>> Yes. By this point, the uh game is
formerly called the Super Bowl. The
press had been looking for something to
call it. And you know, Lamar Hunt, I
think, had been the one who observed his
kid playing with a Whammo Super Bowl.
And so when the league discussions were
sort of going on about it, he proposed
Super Bowl, but Pete Roselle hated it.
>> I think Lamar was like, "Oh, it's just
kind of a funny placeholder name." But
then it just stuck.
>> But it came out in some press interview
and then they just ran with it and then
it was out of the league's control.
>> Yep. All right. So, Super Bowl 3, the
narrative leading into the Super Bowl is
the old NFL soon to be NFC teams,
>> that's real football.
>> That's real football. the AFL, you know,
it's fluff. And there's like real bad
blood between the coaches and the
players on the field. Super Bowl 3, the
Colts versus the Jets. The old Colts,
Johnny Unitus, different era, the 1950s
against Broadway Joe Nameoth and the
Jets.
>> And this is still Baltimore Colts,
right?
>> Baltimore Colts. Yes. In the leadup to
the game, the Colts are 19 point
favorites. Nobody thinks the AFL can
compete. They've been destroyed the last
two years. And then during the media
week, this is the reason we're talking
about this sporting event here in the
midst of this business podcast. It's
just like, oh my gosh, you can't design
this any better.
Broadway Joe guarantees an AFL victory
during media week during a press
conference. Like, you can't make for
better TV drama than that. There is this
very famous photograph that we'll link
to in the show notes of Broadway Joe at
the pool during media week with a
playbook in his lap. He's in like, you
know, he's the sex symbol. He's like in
his, you know, swim trunks and there's
just all these pressing cameras and all
these women like gathered around him
like staring at him and it was a moment
like it was all over the news, all over
television all week. Like what a
incredible media event. And then during
the game, Joe delivers on his guarantee.
Huge upset, beats the Colts. The first
AFL victory over the NFL. At the
afterparty, Carol Rosen Bloom, the uh
Colts owner, is like totally desolate,
and he comes up to Roselle. He's
sobbing. And Roselle's like, "Oh, no,
no, don't worry. This is the best thing
that has ever happened to the game and
to us." And he's so right. That seems
like one of the obvious playbook themes
here is every time you think you just
got beat by some other football team or
entity or personality, it ends up being
so good to raise the profile for the
game that everybody wins. It turns out
the answer is most of the time everybody
just keeps winning.
>> Yep. As long as there is drama, as long
as there is competition, everybody wins.
>> Yep. I mean, this is the great paradox
of the NFL. Everything is about the game
on the field and nothing is about the
game on the field. What it is about is
making sure the game on the field is
compelling. Whoever wins, they all win.
Well, and this is kind of the debate
today between the new group of owners
and the old group of owners. The
original owners are so steadfast in this
is about football and we make a great
entertainment product, but there's
football at the core. And the thing that
they're all a little bit nervous about
with the new group of owners who are so
excited about building these
unbelievable businesses and taking on
more and more sponsorships and
sponsoring team jerseys and onfield
sponsorships and building the spectacle
around every game and what if we had a
Super Bowl halftime show at every game.
It's like are we not a football product
anymore? Are we some kind of
entertainment franchise that has lost
its way? And I think that's the
interesting dichotomy between owners
these days.
>> Yeah. How far is too far? But at this
point in time, they are nowhere near too
far.
>> Yes. Lean way into it.
>> The next year the Chiefs beat the
Vikings and the pre- merger Super Bowl
series ends tied 2 to2. Two victories
for the NFL, two victories for the AFL.
again could not be better for pro
football and the newly combined NFL
because that leads right into the first
joint fully integrated TV negotiations
for the 1970 season.
>> This feels like it's going to be a big
package.
>> Oh boy, are the networks going to have
to pay up. And pay up they do. They
decide to keep both CBS and NBC
essentially with their same packages.
CBS airing the NFC games and NBC airing
the AFC games. The combined contract
value, it is now a 4year contract of
$156
million. That is $40 million
per year. That's a lot of money.
>> And this is where the genius starts of
the NFL realizing we don't have to just
sign one contract. And for anybody who's
looked at the contracts today, there's a
lot of contracts and there's pretty much
not a TV distribution company that is
not distributing some little shard of
what the NFL has carved up. But them
realizing here in 1970, we don't just
have one deal to sign. We have an AFC
package and an NFC package.
>> And we might actually be able to invent
some more here, too.
>> Yes. But first listeners, now is a great
time to tell you about one of our
absolute favorite companies, Cruso.
That's Crusoe E. Many listeners will
recognize that name since we have been
longtime fans and partners and
investors. You may remember that we
talked about them first when their CEO
Chase Lock Miller joined ACQ2 and they
have come a long, long way since they
were setting up those shipping
containers full of GPUs in oil fields
years ago. Crusoe is now one of the most
important foundational layers of the AI
world today. They built and operate some
of the largest AI data centers in the
entire world. They have over a million
GPUs in their fleet and they're valued
at over $10 billion. Their data center
in Abalene, Texas is a massive 1.2 gaw.
This is the flagship site for project
Stargate and it's where Oracle hosts the
massive compute clusters that power
chatgpt for OpenAI. They just announced
another gigantic 1.8 gawatt project in
Wyoming and they have several more for
an astonishing total of 45 gawatts in
their pipeline. And on top of sourcing
all the energy, building and operating
these data centers, Crusoe has built a
huge amount of software and
orchestration tooling on top to make it
easy for developers to build AI
applications. Something that many people
struggle with when using traditional
hyperscalers. Yeah, Cruso is a new type
of cloud built from the ground up
specifically for companies in the AI
generation. Their aim with Cruso Cloud
is to build the world's favorite AI
cloud by streamlining the experience and
eliminating complexity. So no need to
build or scale your own infrastructure.
Just recently they launched managed
inference to make it even more turnkey
for developers, delivering up to 10
times faster time to first token,
ensuring end users get a great
experience. And they also have a second
offering which is their data center
business where they handle all the
physical buildout and operations for the
very largest AI companies in the world
including many of the tools that you use
every day. But their real secret weapon
is speed. While the industry average to
bring a data center online is 7 years,
Cruso has compressed that entire life
cycle down to just one year. Crazy. So
if this sounds interesting and you want
to learn more, head on over to
cruso.ai/acquired.
That's c ru.ai/acquired
and just tell them that Ben and David
sent you. So David, take us to Monday
night.
>> Oh, let's go to Monday night. So they
got CBS, they've got NBC. Remember ABC?
ABC's been out in the cold for several
years now,
>> which is a real shame because you've got
Runarage there. He's a visionary. This
is still before ESPN, right?
>> Still before ESPN. Well, well before
ESPN. 10 years. So yeah, that's still
far off in the future, but ABC is
clearly interested in sports.
>> Yes, clearly interested in something. So
Roselle and Rooney start chatting.
Roselle has always had the inkling that
football and the NFL would do really
well in a prime time slot, but this is
crazy. Like you were talking about a
little while ago, Sundays were perfect
for football, Sunday afternoons, because
the networks didn't have anything else
to air. The accepted thinking at the
time was like, "Oh, sports are perfect
for Sunday afternoons." But like the
core business of the television
networks,
>> right? Sports is not prime time
>> is showing shows and news and
entertainment and that is not sports.
>> That appeals to the widest range of
people and that we still don't know for
sure that the NFL is that. You know,
it's very telling that all of these
networks had separate sports divisions
and that ABC didn't even have one until
they got the first AFL deal. It was a
separate thing.
>> And just to keep tracking our baseball
versus football comparison, this moment
in 1970 is right around the time where
the NFL is eclipsing baseball to become
America's favorite sport. It's been
slowly gaining ground over the last 30
years. And the merger plus the creation
of the Super Bowl really puts the NFL
here squarely in the lead making it the
perfect candidate for this sports prime
time experiment.
Indeed. So Rosel and Marlidge is like
yeah I think this can work. So they
brainstorm and together come up with the
idea for one single game every week with
incredibly high production values
broadcast in prime time in the evening
on Monday nights after the full slate
has concluded on Sunday. And oh my gosh,
so many advantages to this. On the
Sunday games, there always have been so
many games that happen on Sunday. You
can't watch them all all at once.
They're all happening concurrently.
You're seeing different games in
different markets.
>> There's not a national event to watch
because the way the local affiliate
works, it's still at this point in time
where you can't watch a home game at
home. So, whatever is on TV in your city
is wherever your team is playing if
they're playing an away game and no NFL
on Sunday if your team is playing a home
game. either you're going to the NFL
game on Sunday or it's a non-event for
you that week,
>> right? And that's on the viewer side.
From the production standpoint for CBS
and NBC, they're sending each of them
like five, six, seven TV crews out all
across the country. Like their resources
are getting totally diluted every
Sunday. They can't put all their effort
into one prime time game. And the
broadcasts other than the Super Bowl and
honestly like even kind of the Super
Bowl at this point in time are pretty
bad. We talked earlier about they got
better and they learned. They didn't
learn much. They were still referred to
around this period of time, 1970, as
football in a cathedral. You had no fun
camera angles. You probably had three,
maybe four cameras in the entire
broadcast. And most of it really is just
that 50-yard camera that sort of zooms
in and out. And the announcers are kind
of relying on the fact that you're
watching the game. So, they're not
really commentating that much. They
would just sort of help you know that
there's audio associated with the
broadcast you're watching.
>> Yeah. I mean, step back and think about
the last NFL game you watched. The
transitions between the camera angles,
the music, the sound effects, the
microphones, the analysis, the sideline
reporting,
>> the lower thirds,
>> the graphics. none of this existed.
>> The notion that there's playbyplay in
color, this idea that there should
always be someone talking, saying
something interesting while you're
watching a game. Yes. So, this whole
vision for Monday Night Football that
run our ABC can make happen for the NFL
and new meteorites for the NFL to sell
more revenue. They've got it all ironed
out, all the details. And right before
they're about to sign a deal, Roselle's
like, "Oh yeah, by the way, we have
these partnerships with CBS and NBC. We
got to offer this to our partners
first."
Which,
>> you know, Rosel
>> brutal.
>> He has this reputation and history
treats him as like a incredibly kind,
incredibly accommodating, and I'm sure
that's true.
>> But he had a little bit of Al Davis in
him, too. He knew exactly what he was
doing here. He knew that there was no
way that NBC and CBS were going to take
this package.
>> Yep. He just wanted a stalking horse.
He's like, I don't want to leave any
money on the table with this whatever
we're signing here. They have to fear
that we're going to walk.
>> Totally. You know, Rune, of course,
freaks out. This is his baby. This is
his career within ABC.
>> He's been pre-elling this to his bosses,
so he looks bad if they lose this now.
>> So, they come in with an over-the-top
deal. ABC gets exclusive rights to
Monday Night Football for a new deal,
new product, 8.5 million
per season.
>> And the other deal was
>> the other deal was 40 per season for
essentially 15x more content, I think.
>> Right. Each TV network is paying about
20 to have either the AFC package or the
NFC package on Sundays. and ABC is
coming in and now spending eight and a
half just for one game on Monday nights.
And you might say, "Whoa, that's
terrible. They're way overpaying for the
amount of content that is." But
actually, what you want to be paying for
is the smallest amount of content
possible that gets distributed to the
widest audience possible. So, you
actually should be willing to pay up to
20 million as long as the aggregate
number of viewers that you get on that
day is the same. Because if I'm ABC, I'm
like, "Wow, those guys, that really
sucks for them having to produce four,
five, six different games. I only have
to produce one." And it's nationally
broadcast across all my affiliates. This
is amazing. We are going to go hard on
costs on the production side to make it
the most dazzling possible experience.
>> And we're going to make it back. Boy,
did they ever. The first Monday Night
Football game that airs that season is
watched by 60 million US households.
That is like Super Bowl level. I mean,
Super Bowl one was 65.
>> They invented a holiday out of nowhere
and it's every week.
>> They totally invented a weekly holiday.
It's amazing. CBS and NBC must have been
pissed. Seriously, because it's also,
you know, they signed the contract
thinking we between the two of us, we
basically have a lock on all the
football and then they invented more
football.
>> Exactly. And for the NFL, they invented
more football. They invented revenue.
Amazing.
>> And by this point, the NFL's starting to
wake up to this idea that, you know,
they're still not willing to play with
the blackouts at all, but maybe people
watching on TV can be better than people
coming into the stadiums. Maybe there's
enough money in this that for us to be
nationally broadcast on a Monday night.
I still think it was blacked out in the
home market, but they recognize the
value of everyone else watching and how
that's even more important than the
stadium itself. Okay, so I made a list
of things that Monday Night Football
invented that was not a part of your
typical football NFL broadcast before
Monday Night Football, and it is
astonishing. This is everything that you
expect in every NFL and frankly every
college game that you watch now and it
was brand new for Monday Night Football
and in fact was Monday Night Football
exclusive for 20 or 30 years in a lot of
the cases. But the overriding idea that
we are going to cover a football game
like show business. This is not a sport
we're broadcasting. This is showbiz and
we will make you feel like that. So what
are we gonna do? We're gonna put cameras
at field level. We're going to put
cameras on people's shoulder and they're
actually going to get to sort of run
around and get up close footage of
people while they're celebrating
touchdown dances or when they're running
back in from the sideline. We're going
to put cameras on the 20 yard lines in
addition to the 50 yard line so that we
can get a straight down view when
they're in the red zone. It's not just
sort of this weird sort of from the side
angle on it on touchdowns. like we're
going to get great footage headon during
touchdowns. Instead of two commentators,
we're going to have a threeman booth and
there's going to be real actionoriented
commentary there. And of course, we
can't talk about Monday Night Football
without Howard Coell and his
unbelievably unique style of narrating
and really injecting himself into the
story of the broadcast rather than just
being a sort of opinionless third party
observer. He created a little bit of um
a foil to play off of for the other
commentators where there was real
relationship and you were tuning in not
just to watch whatever the football was,
but to watch these announcers who you
sort of got to know over time and really
observe their charisma with each other
about the game.
>> That's exactly what I was going to say.
It's the same dynamic with podcast now.
It's like they became your friends in
the booth,
>> right? It's not just that you're
listening to business stories. It's that
you're hanging out with David and I
while we talk about business stories.
It's one of the first examples ever of
realizing the power of that. They went
from the four cameras that typically
would cover a Sunday broadcast to nine
cameras and then eventually up to 17
cameras. They invented the parabolic
microphone coverage that you always see
on the sideline. Those sort of clear
plastic microphones that are aimed at
gathering the sound from on the field.
They had 40 engineers. They had 20
production people. They invented these
split screens so you could watch two
cameras concurrently cover the game.
They had onfield interviews, shots of
cheerleaders to add a little bit of a
sex appeal to the game for the first
time. And they also used green screens,
which is so funny to watch some of these
early I guess they didn't have room in
the booth according to the Payton's
Places ESPN video that we watched about
this where for the threeman booth they
needed more space than they had in the
press box. So they ended up putting them
like out in the hallway and built a
little custom room to do this in, but
the background wasn't good. So they put
in a green screen and then they would
put another camera in the press box and
so they would superimpose that the field
was right behind them, but it actually
wasn't. And it's so obvious watching it
today.
>> They're like floating on the stadium.
It's hilarious.
>> Yes.
>> But this is revolutionary stuff.
>> Yes. And there was one other really
really big innovation and this was a
thing that would go on to be the
predecessor for ESPN as a network for
Sports Center as a program and it would
create billions and billions of dollars
of enterprise value and that is replays.
>> Yeah, the highlights.
Before we talk highlights, did you say
the theme song too?
>> No.
>> Yeah. I thought actually that's where
you were going with ESPN. I mean the
theme songs like there were no theme
songs before this,
>> right? This notion you're actually
tuning into a program that has an
associated pumpup song that is built for
that franchise is unique. Okay, so let's
talk about highlights. So how could you
have possibly watched highlights before
Monday Night Football? Well, the games
were on Sundays and that was really the
only football that was on all week. you
know, we didn't have the internet, there
wasn't ESPN, there wasn't Sports Center.
So, there really was no place to go and
watch highlights. Now, football and all
sports are unbelievably highlightable
events that if you string together a
bunch of the very best plays, it's
really, really interesting and really
entertaining, especially if they're
covered by great cameras. Now, compare
this to baseball where not only was
there no place to go watch them, but
there was no one capturing the footage
to even highlight it, but NFL has NFL
films. And using highquality cameras and
film stock, they are capturing great
camera angles of every game. And so
between Sunday and Monday, the NFL films
team would go and take all of the
footage from the game the previous day,
cut up a highlight reel and as soon as
possible get that to whatever city the
Monday Night Football broadcast was
happening in so that they could play it
at halftime. And Howard Kosell could
give his commentary, often having never
seen the footage while the highlight
reel is playing in the background and
really invents this idea of for the
first time, we're going to watch
highlights of yesterday's games.
>> I got to imagine the highlight reel was
literally being slid into the machine as
they were getting ready to broadcast it.
Because think about the logistics in
that. You get the film stock back from
all the games all around the country
back to NFL films. They produce the
highlight reel. They get that finished
reel back to the Monday Night Football
location, which is another location
somewhere around the country.
>> Totally.
>> All within 24 hours.
>> It's really amazing. God, I can't
believe we're only up to 1970.
>> I know. Well, you can't get any better
from this. I mean, this is now the fully
formed entertainment product of the NFL.
And they add stuff like Sunday Ticket
and Thursday Night Football and
everything else over the years, but the
trajectory is set. There's some ups and
downs in the 70s, but it's basically
just like gonzo for the NFL. There's one
more presidential intervention in 1973.
Nixon really, really, really likes
watching the Redskins, but he's sick of
taking the helicopter to Camp David to
watch their away games, which he
actually was doing, which is
unbelievable.
>> He was a nut. Nixon literally phoned in
a play for a Redskins playoff game from
the White House. maybe should have been
paying more attention to foreign policy
and things like that, but Camp David
sufficiently 75 miles away. By the way,
there was this whole cottage industry
that sprouted up of hotels that were
outside of the 75 mile radius and there
were buses. So, people would go to these
hotels and they would get rooms for the
day to go watch the games. This dynamic
formed like plot lines on sitcoms in the
70s and the 80s. So Nixon calls Pete
Rosselle personally, the president, the
sitting president of the United States,
and says, "Hey, we're in the playoffs
this year. You know, I think it would be
a good idea for you to air playoff
games, not every game, but playoff games
locally." And Pete Roselle, even in
1973, is pretty dug in on this issue
that it's a bad thing and it's
cannibalizing to our most important
thing, our gate revenue, if we do that.
So he says no to the sitting president.
And so then Nixon goes to Congress and
says, "Will you please draft legislation
which got known as the blackout ban?"
And so because Roselle denied the
president, there is actually legislation
that was passed in order to force the
NFL's hand in broadcasting away games
locally. And this is one of the things
that Roselle got super wrong. The right
thing was as soon as possible the NFL to
get as much distribution as possible
because the TV rights would become the
most important revenue line. But also
the thing that most fueled the flywheel
that more people watching the games is
better for everything for continued
fandom. It's like how Disney wants you
to consume the content so that you go to
the parks and you buy the merch. So it
was one of his few strategic flaws, I
think, was gating the content for too
long.
>> Yep. And I don't know if this is
directly related, but I think so much of
the 70s and the 80s and the 90s were
also about just like the continued
growth trajectory of the incredible
marriage of the NFL and television and
the money just keeps getting bigger and
the stage keeps getting larger and the
viewership goes up and you know all the
things. Yeah. And this is probably worth
saying that we aren't going to go
blowby-blow on the NFL timeline past
1970 the way we did during the Rosel
era. There's a bunch of stuff to skip
like the USFL and all the teams moving
cities and deflategate to focus really
on the strategic moments that created
the conditions of the NFL's business
today.
>> Yep. So probably the biggest decision
that happens during the time the league
first mentality kind of gets diluted
with the stadiums that you referred to
because as all the teams start moving
into the bigger stadiums, they start
building amenities into the stadiums and
the stadium experience totally changes
which it needed to as television became
primacy. There had to be a reason to go
to the stadium. Stadiums become all
about the luxury boxes, the suites, the
experiences, the corporate partners, the
advertising, the drink sponsors, all of
this stuff. And that becomes huge money
for the NFL, but it's not shared money.
It's local money.
>> Yes, this is my biggest criticism. The
thing that got them here, this league
first mentality
is
eroding because of the way that the
revenue splits are happening. So you
look at the local stadium sponsorships.
You look at every stadium is dedicating
more and more real estate to luxury
suites. The local merchandise sold in
the stadiums is local revenue. And so
the teams are making more and more money
locally. So a greater percentage is
coming from things the teams are doing
on their own. And you got to wonder if
that individualistic I'm Jerry Jones and
the Cowboys deserve all the revenue
mindset will be the thing that
eventually kind of causes them to get
unseated in some way.
>> And I think the thing that keeps the
competitive balance in place even as
revenue diverges is the salary cap.
>> Yeah, this is a great place to talk
about that. Let's go to 1993 and talk
about the first time free agency and the
salary cap comes into the NFL. How
that's computed and how that impacts the
sort of leverage going forward. The
league has been negotiating with the
players association for a while. I think
since the 60s in various collective
bargaining agreements, but the 1993 one
is unique. The NFL didn't really have
free agency for a while. And in 1993,
players finally got it, at least as long
as a player had been in the league for 4
years. In exchange, there was a salary
cap put in, capped at some fixed
percentage of the amount of revenue that
the league generates,
>> right?
>> So that today is actually a pretty high
number. It's 48.8%
or something like that. So players are
effectively a partner in the league
because the league's success ends up
being their success. Not necessarily
evenly distributed among all players by
any means. In fact, quite the opposite.
But at least players are virtually
guaranteed in whole to make close to
half of the league's overall revenue.
But how does that work with local and
national revenue? Well, since it is
based on the total revenue, if a team
makes a whole bunch of local revenue,
they're going to have no problem making
the obligation that they have to pay the
players.
>> And you're saying that that fixed amount
is a leaguewide aggregate, including all
the local revenue from all of the teams.
>> Yes.
>> So, this potentially could create a big
imbalance,
>> right? It's okay as long as the local
revenue doesn't become too big of a
part. But at some point, you have to
imagine that what is 48.8% of league
average could be 90% of what I make as a
team in a small market with a crappy
stadium. And then because I have to pay
players so much, there's no way I can
pay for other stuff. And so, you know,
my coaching gets hurt or the production
for fans gets hurt or something that
makes me a less competitive team. Even
if the players on the field are paid
just as much as the players on the field
from other teams.
>> Yep.
>> And it's interesting because I think in
93 when the salary cap first came out,
it was just of the shared revenue. But
now that in the more recent agreements,
it includes all league revenue and local
revenue is actually growing as a portion
of the overall revenue for the top
teams. unshared revenue for teams grew
from 12% in 1994 to 21% in 2003 and is
over 30% today. So there's definitely a
meaningful and ever growing part of NFL
team revenue that really does come from
just the team itself and what it can do
in its local market, not from that sort
of locked brotherhood of we're all in it
together league revenue. Yeah, it is a
serious threat to this magical flywheel
that has made the NFL succeed well
beyond any other sport on a revenue
basis in the world. Even though football
and the NFL is not the most popular
sport in the world, it is by far the
highest monetized and largest sport by
revenue. I think actually, I don't know
if we said this up front, I'm pretty
sure the NFL is the largest single media
business in the world. not an aggregate
diversified media business. But like if
you consider the league as a single
property, then I think it is the largest
individual single property in the world.
>> It's a good question. The comps would
probably be like Marvel or Lucasfilm.
>> Yep. I looked at that. Bigger than
Marvel, bigger than Lucasfilm.
>> Really?
>> Yep.
>> Cuz the NFL does 18 billion a year in
revenue right now, which is expected to
grow to 25 billion by 2027.
>> Yep. I believe Marvel's not anywhere
near that. Wow. Yeah, that's wild
>> because it's an annual basis. That's
every year.
>> I mean, this TV contract that they just
signed, the 10-year deal is for $112
billion
across all these entities.
>> Just wild.
>> And just to share what that specifically
looks like, CBS broadcasts a Sunday
afternoon package for 1.85 billion a
year. Fox has a Sunday afternoon package
for 2 billion a year. They invented a
new skew, the Sunday night package. And
they invented this a while ago, but NBC
has that for 1.7 billion a year. Disney
owns Monday Night Football, as we
mentioned, for 2.55. It is a single game
per week, and it's the most expensive
package. It's incredible. Amazon has
Thursday Night Football for 1.3 billion
a year. And of course, then we just got
the news last month that DirecTV has
lost NFL Sunday Ticket and that is
moving to YouTube TV. NFL Sunday Ticket
is also a genius move because you're
reselling the same content you've
already sold.
>> It's the same content. It's the content
that is exclusive to CBS, Fox, NBC that
those networks produce. I'm pretty sure
it's even like their cameras, their on
air talent, all that. But the NFL, it
has the exclusive right to bundle all
that together and sell it as a package
directly to a consumer if you want
access to all the games. If you don't
just want the ones that are on TV near
you, if you want the ability to watch
any game at any time. And it is
incredible to me that that is worth $2
billion given the NFL is actually not
doing the work to produce it. The people
who are doing the work to produce it are
the people who are paying for the
privilege to cover those games.
>> Amazing. And then there's more now and
let's catch us up to the present day.
There's revenue from the NFL films
division. I think it's probably a couple
hundred million dollars I would expect
at this point in time. There's other
licensing rights, particularly video
games and Madden. So I don't think it's
public, but it was reported that the
latest Madden licensing deal with EA was
a total of $1.6 billion for a 5year
rights. Wow. which man, remember that
episode we did with Trip on EA back in
the day was so fun and talking about the
origins of Madden?
>> That's a $300 million a year deal. So
that's like a sixth of what one of these
channels pays to broadcast the actual
NFL. That's what EA pays to just license
the use of the player names and team
logos and all that.
>> Yep. Then there's fantasy, both betting
and non-betting.
>> Yeah. And this is a good point to fully
bring us to today. I think it is totally
reasonable to say that the things that
powered the rise of the NFL were
national TV, post-war prosperity, the
rise of the middle class, the Madison
Avenue explosion, and the league first
mentality. But all of this is in the '
50s,60s, and 70s. The thing that powered
the NFL to be such a dominant force in
society today is fantasy football and
sports betting. So, let's talk about
fantasy first.
>> Great. There's like 30 or 40 million
people a year in the United States that
play fantasy football, thus making it
the way that the centerpiece of
conversation with their closest friends
and families and co-workers, which means
you have to watch football in order to
have those conversations with the people
that are closest to you in your life.
Fantasy is such a great example of
driving and adding to the Roselle
flywheel. better products, deepen fan
engagement, more viewership, more
advertising, which really now translates
to more revenue opportunities because
there's revenue opportunities from
fantasy. Sunday Ticket, that whole
package basically was to cater to two
audiences. One, bars and restaurants who
want to be able to show multiple games
within their establishment, but two, and
even bigger, the fantasy crowd. They're
going to be willing to pay a lot of
money to see all the games live. And
then that feeds back into the product
and the flywheel spins.
>> And of course, then there's sports
betting, which is now becoming legalized
in lots of states, but has been a force
for a long time. Of course, you could
bet legally in Las Vegas, but obviously
tons of people have bookies that can
just place bets for them no matter where
they lived.
>> And I'm shocked shocked to find gambling
going on in this establishment.
>> And when you've got money writing on a
game, you are absolutely going to tune
in. I looked it up just to put a number
on this. The current estimates are that
46 million Americans or 18% of betting
age US adults bet on the NFL this year
and that number continues to grow.
>> That's just this year.
>> Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> People bet on the NFL more than any
other sport in the US. Variety reports
81% of sports betterers bet on NFL games
versus just over 50% for the NBA and 44%
for Major League Baseball.
Interestingly, the NFL doesn't generate
meaningful revenue from betting yet,
though I am sure they will in the
future.
>> Yeah, you can uh probably bet on that.
>> Hey, hey,
>> so I guess it's worth pausing to
understand the shape of the NFL's
business today and how the revenue
breaks down. So, on average, about 2/3
of any given team's revenue comes from
shared national revenue that we talked
about. the remaining one-third comes
from the local revenue. But again, this
is just on average. So, some teams are
very good at the local revenue like the
Dallas Cowboys and some teams are very
bad at this like the Bills or the Lions.
And I have some numbers to put that in
perspective. This past year, each team
got right around 350 million from the
shared league revenue, but that extra
local revenue obviously can cause a
gigantic swing in the team's total
revenue. And Forbes has an estimate that
the Cowboys made over a billion dollars
last year, whereas the Lions only made
$450 million. So, not really much on top
of the shared revenue from the league.
>> Wow.
So much for the league first mentality
from Jerry Jones there,
>> right? So, it's also useful, I think, to
slice it a different way rather than
just the shared versus local. Here is
how the NFL team revenue breaks down
purely by product. So this is
essentially answering the question, how
does the NFL make money? So 61% comes
from media. Most of that is the TV from
the shared league revenue. 10% comes
from general seating, which is regular
plastic seats. Uh another 10% comes from
premium seating.
>> That's for the proletariat.
>> Yes. The premium seating that we
mentioned is the suites and all that
stuff. That's a big growing revenue line
for the people with nice stadiums.
>> And most of that is corporate, right?
>> I think so. That's my best guess. It's
super different city to city. This is
probably the most variable.
>> Y
>> 10% comes from sponsorship and
advertising. And then about 9% is other,
which I'm guessing is where NFL films
and a lot of that stuff sort of lies.
>> Maybe the Madden deal is in there. I
don't know if it'd be there or in media.
>> Yeah. So that's the shape of the NFL as
a business today. So before we kind of
finish that out and get into analyzing
the business, I mentioned the
complicated relationship that people
have with football. In the 2000s, it
became clear as day that CTE is very
real and caused by playing football and
causes shorter lifespans and immense
physical harm to players. And CTE, as
many of you know, is chronic traumatic
encphylopathy, which is a terrible brain
condition that develops from the many
repeated subconussive hits to the head.
And the symptoms are devastating,
>> mental, emotional, suicides, everything.
>> I mean, the NFL settled a billion dollar
lawsuit to pay out victims and families
of CTE.
>> Yeah. You know, it's even worse than
that. There's a bunch of dimensions
here. Yeah, I played football all
growing up, middle school, high school,
college. You know, my feeling, and this
was in the 90s and early 2000s, you
know, my feeling on the matter was I'm
for sure risking my body by playing, but
the risk calculation on my mind was all
short-term. I could tear an ACL, sure. I
could break my arm, sure. I could get a
concussion, sure. But in my mind, those
were all the same things. like there was
no broader understanding among general
population or there's been a bunch of
research on this or the NFL players
themselves that there was real long-term
mental risk to playing the game. And
then here's what's really bad is the NFL
knew it and they covered it up. So the
NFL started doing research into
long-term effects of concussions and
other head trauma from playing football
in the '90s. And then they sat on the
data for a long time. And then when they
did release it, they claimed that there
was absolutely no provable link, no
evidence at all that head injuries from
playing football led to long-term
damage.
>> The NFL didn't acknowledge that until
2016.
>> Super bad. I mean, there's the Will
Smith movie, Concussion about it. We
don't need to go into a bunch of the
specifics, but I think like from the
acquired standpoint and the NFL audience
standpoint, this was a major major
trustbreaking moment.
>> Certainly, it affected it enough for
LeBron James to say, "I don't want my
son playing football." I mean, that was
a huge cultural moment.
>> The second order effects are pretty
large from this one. Is what you said
about parents allowing and wanting their
children to play football.
Interestingly, all youth sports are
down. I don't think football is down
much more than other youth sports, but
video games, social media, phones,
>> and the pandemic, too.
>> Yes. But I think the real risk, and this
is starting to be shown out in the data,
is how are future generations going to
view the NFL and football? And if you
look at the data, US adults as a whole,
33% say the NFL is their favorite
professional sports league. But if you
look at Gen Z, only 23% of Gen Z say
that the NFL is their favorite
professional sport. So 10 points less
than the broader population. And
basketball in Gen Z is 19%. Right there,
pretty close to football.
>> From a revenue perspective, the NFL
today makes twice as much as basketball.
But that's a pretty damning trend
looking at where Gen Z's interests lie.
>> Yep. This whole thing was just bad
period for the NFL. How do you deny the
existence of these things when people in
your organization have been hired to
commission this research and then you're
burying it for decades
>> and it's your players? It is your
product on the field.
>> It's also interesting to note who wasn't
producing content about concussions. I
mean, this Will Smith movie came out
that I don't think was through the media
channels of any of the NFL's partners. I
think the NFL wields a lot of influence
and saying, "Oh, uh, you may not be a
part of the networks that get our
broadcast in the next generation." That
strategy would have worked really well
30 years ago, but in the social media
era where individuals have Twitter
accounts, a lot harder to control the
narrative.
>> Yep. Speaking of hard to control the
narrative, let's talk about blackballing
Colin Kaepernick. And I think an
interesting place to start is the job of
the commissioner. So the commissioner is
not the president or CEO of football.
The owners are not their executives and
the commissioner's obligation is not to
the fans. The commissioner is hired to
do one job and that job is speak for and
do things that are in the best interests
of the owners as a whole. And so if the
most powerful owners want something,
that is what the commissioner does. That
is what the message is from the NFL. The
NFL itself is a very thin layer on top
of a whole bunch of teams that are their
own very large businesses. In fact, a
lot of hay was made about the NFL
switching in 2015 from a nonprofit to a
for-profit. The NFL has like very little
net income. Who cares what its tax
filing status is?
>> It all gets distributed out to the
teams,
>> right? The teams are their own taxpaying
entities and their own businesses. And
so, you know, Roger Goodell makes 40
plus million dollars a year to do what
the owners want and they hire him to do
that and they will fire him if he
doesn't do that.
>> Oh man, there are these great quotes in
America's game where the owners are
talking about Pete Riselle with the
representative of the players at the
time they're negotiating contracts and
the players are complaining that Pete
Riselle isn't being neutral in these
negotiations. The owners are like, "Of
course he's neutral. We pay him damn
well to be neutral." So yeah, the
commissioner of the NFL is like the
ultimate in shareholder responsibility.
In fact, shareholder responsibility is
his only responsibility. Back to Colin
Kaepernick. So in the good old days of
football, it was a bunch of reasonably
young enterprising owners who loved
football and owned teams. It wasn't
clear if they were going to be good
businesses or not, but the league as
itself and thus all the owners were
cowboys trying to make it for themselves
in the world. And those people all got
old and didn't want to change at all.
>> Now most of those people are dead and
it's their descendants who are also old
who own these teams.
>> Yes. And so now there's these very
interesting artifacts of the league
being grown up old and stodgy the
incumbent something like that when they
were once a startup especially when it
comes to just acknowledging that a guy
can protest the national anthem.
>> Yeah I do think when that happened in
2016 it was a lot more of a radical act
than it might seem today and there were
a lot of people at the time who were
deeply offended by it. He was using the
NFL's platform to sort of make a very
personal argument
>> and there were a lot of people in the
NFL who understood why he was doing it
because 70% of the NFL is black. So
there was a lot going on here,
>> right? And we should say what actually
happened. Kaepernick in 2016 took a knee
during the national anthem to protest
police brutality and racial inequality
in the US. After that season, he was a
free agent. Zero teams signed him and of
course he had some disappointing seasons
and injuries. But let's be real here.
The NFL black ballalled Colin Kaepernick
after this.
>> Oh, Kaepernick filed a grievance and
eventually reached a confidential
settlement with the NFL. I mean, the
whole macro thing here is very strange
of the owners to let this seemingly
minor thing turn into the gigantic media
mess the way that they did.
>> Yeah. And I think the interesting thing
for the purposes of our discussion here
about this, I don't think this ever
would have happened or happened in the
same way in the NBA. The NBA embraced
both social media and the strategy of
letting players have their own
platforms, be their own voices, and
promote the league through that. And the
NFL was the opposite of that. Like they
were the command and the control. We own
the message. And like there was no
clearer example of this. But bottom
line, the NFL wildly mishandled this.
Let it get completely out of hand. This
is the way that we know of Colin
Kaepernick now. He's sort of like an
icon for this thing. So, I mean, if what
the NFL wanted to do was not amplify his
protest by making him not able to play,
it totally blew up in their face and he
became a national headline for months
and months and months,
>> right? Which is emblematic of the NFL
not understanding the social media era.
>> Yep. So, all this to say, it was very
compelling for David, you and I to spend
a bunch of time talking about the NFL up
through 1980 and the Roselle era. But, I
mean, revenues have gone up, team values
have gone up, games have gone from
standard deaf to HD to 4K, but the end
of the heroes journey sort of happened
at the end of the Roselle era.
>> Yeah.
>> And it won't hurt their business for a
long time. That's the interesting thing.
I think this is a good point to
transition into analysis and why don't
we do playbook and then do power. One
that just really strikes me through all
this is the Lindy effect. Despite
everything you just said, football is
bigger than it ever has been.
>> 12 billion a year in revenue from the TV
deals alone.
>> A huge amount of revenue. And now
diversified those revenue sources. It's
not just oldline broadcast networks
trying to hang on that are paying them
this money. Like, no, it's Google and
Amazon that are paying them this money.
>> They're paying what? Close to $4 billion
a year from the biggest tech companies
in the world.
>> Yeah, the NFL is going to be just fine.
And that revenue is almost assuredly
going to grow at a very healthy clip.
So, even despite all this, people love
their football. I still love watching
football.
>> Totally. Me, too. I feel like I'm a
slight apologist for still loving
football as much as I do.
>> Two things. as one. I mean, again, that
just reinforces the power of the Lindy
effect to me. The NFL is just fine and
is going to be just fine for a very,
very long time. Now, I do think the
younger generations thing is a real
risk. And I think related to that is
one, basketball definitely won the
social media era in a way, not as to as
big a degree as the NFL won the TV era,
but basketball's on the rise. And
related to that as number two, the NFL
has never figured out international.
Many fits and starts.
>> Have you read about these home marketing
agreements?
>> No.
>> It's really weird. The NFL now because
there's zero international interest in
the NFL. Like zero. Like they go play
these other games in other countries and
the people who watch them are people
from the US who fly to go watch their
favorite team play in somewhere exotic.
I mean, for God's sakes, baseball has a
robust international presence,
>> right? And as we talked about in our NBA
episode, I mean, basketball's entire
future growth and current sort of ground
swell of popularity is young people and
international. So, the NFL has tried NFL
Europe, kind of shut that down, couldn't
get the owners to care about it. this
home marketing agreement thing that
they're doing is saying that teams have
an exclusive right versus other NFL
teams to market in certain countries.
>> Oh, no way. I didn't see this.
>> I think it's like the Cowboys can
advertise the Cowboys in Mexico. It's
that sort of thing because they want to
try to build affinity for teams where
there's like some theoretical mapping to
that country based on ethnic groups in
the area or proximity. That does not
seem like a sound international strategy
to me.
>> No. And the question kind of becomes,
how can the NFL continue to grow or can
it? Because the average number of people
who watch any given NFL game, pick your
metric. Is it the average Monday Night
Football game? Is it the average kickoff
game of the season? Is it the average
Super Bowl? It's like up and down over
the last 20 years. It's amazing that
it's as high as it is when people don't
watch anything else on TV. But I
honestly I'm having a hard time
understanding how they grow the fan
base. Well, the core to growing the
original NFL flywheel is increasing fan
reach and engagement, and that's no
longer happening,
>> right? And then you have this
interesting question of is college
football starting to pay players
competitive to the NFL or additive?
Because college football has fueled the
growth of the NFL? I mean, think about
it this way. The NBA and Major League
Baseball teams have to pay to operate
farm teams that no one wants to watch or
play in. And the NFL gets all the
benefit of all the development of all of
these players in their college years for
free,
>> right?
>> They benefit from the storylines around
them, too. So, when someone comes into
Major League Baseball and gets promoted
out of the minors, everyone's like, "Who
cares? I have no idea who that person
is." Whereas the Heisman Trophy winner
who you know about what their childhood
was like comes out of NCAA football out
of the you know
>> right the story lines are fully baked
and ready to go.
>> Yeah. College football has been the best
thing to ever happen to the NFL for
basically its whole existence.
>> Right. It was the worst thing for the
first 20 years and then it was the best
thing.
>> Good point. Yeah. I think the biggest
players getting paid in the NCAA right
now with the sort of weird way that the
booster stuff works is like $2 million.
They're not competing for talent and I
don't think the NFL will start trying to
sign earlier college players. So, I
don't think they'll be competing
directly or in the same order of
magnitude. The revenue that big colleges
make and that these conferences make
isn't NFL size, but these are huge
deals. So, the NFL, for comparison, has
a $12 billion aggregate set of media
rights that it sells. The Big 10 deal is
a billion dollar a year. They just
signed a 7-year deal at a billion
dollars a year, which is twice their
previous deal from 2016. All this to
say, the business of college football is
still much, much smaller than the NFL.
But it'll be really interesting to see
sort of how it as players start to get
paid more, where it finds its footing in
the landscape and if it changes at all
from where it is today.
>> Yep. A thing in playbook here that I
think is interesting to talk about is
the relationship that the NFL has with
its players as a supplier and with the
networks as a customer. So, it got
itself into this trap for a while where
it was negotiating with the networks and
so it would sign a big deal to get a
bunch of revenue and then would quickly
have a negotiation coming up with the
players and they seem to have switched
to this thing now where they signed a
collective bargaining agreement for a
decade with the players. I think they
did that in 2020. That lasts through
2030. And then in 2022, that's when they
renegotiated the 10-year rights for
media. So, they seem to have switched to
this, which is good business decision.
Before anyone knows what the big new
revenue contract looks like, they go and
they lock in all the pricing on their
suppliers. Now, granted, it's a
revshare.
>> It's a percentage basis. Yeah.
>> Right. So, in that respect, it's fair.
But it is quite clever to have gotten
off the tick tock cycle of, you know,
having the players have a bunch of
leverage after seeing what the media
deal looks like and doing it in this
order.
>> Yep.
>> The other thing that I've been sort of
charting is the media deals go up
dramatically in value, but the average
viewers kind of stays the same. Like in
2002,
the kickoff game had about 20 million
people watch and it rose and it was in
the mid20s and then it dipped back down
below 20. And last year about 20 million
people watched the kickoff game.
>> So we're in about two decades of
audience stagnation.
>> Yeah. So why is it that the media rights
are worth so much more when the number
of audience impressions stays the same?
I'm curious where your head is on that.
I have some theories, but on a CPM
basis, it seems like the advertisers are
all just paying more money now, or at
least the TV networks believe that they
can make more money from something and
so they're willing to pay more for the
rights. That's a great question. My
first instinct is to say I think it's
scarcity value and that I don't think
there's in the modern media world
anywhere else except live football where
you can hit a huge amount of people all
at once across demographics.
>> Yep. I think that's definitely part of
it. Another argument would be, well,
they're finding a way to put more ad
slots into the same amount of media, but
that's not true. they've actually held
flat or in some cases even decreased the
number of commercials over the last 15
years in NFL broadcasts. So you're
thinking, okay, the audience size is
about the same, the number of ad slots
is about the same. So what else could be
going on here? I think part of it is,
you're right, is that the networks are
quickly getting into a place where
they're like, we don't really have any
other content that people want to watch,
so we kind of need this no matter what.
And that advantages the NFL in the
negotiation where they come in and they
say, "Look, I know you used to be super
profitable on buying these rights from
us and then your business on the back
end was selling all these advertisements
against it. We think you should just
compete against each other until your
margins are zero and we're going to
acrue all the profit pool now because
there's basically nothing else that
you'll put on that people want to
watch." I think that's probably right.
For those networks for the last decade,
run the counterfactual of the networks
no longer had football. They don't exist
anymore. This has been life support for
them for a decade. So, here's the
interesting thing is you might say like,
well, if the margins are razor thin,
they need a ton of volume because
effectively what is happening here is
the profit is getting reallocated to a
different part of the supply chain.
there's no more value in distribution
and all the value is acrewing to the
content creator. You could make an
analogy to the airline industry where no
one was willing to pay for a better
experience on a flight. All the margin
got competed away between all the
airlines. So all the airlines had to
merge because you had to have massive
massive scale. That's also what happened
to these media companies that are
distributing the content. I mean,
AT&T/Direct
TV, NBC/UNiversal,
the companies that are buying the rights
are massive combinations that can
actually afford to generate any margin.
What are the unit economics of buying
NFL rights and then selling a bunch of
ads against them? But I have to imagine
they're much worse than they used to be.
>> They have to be. And it's pretty genius
that the NFL doesn't do this themselves,
that they rely on broadcast partners
because they've basically observed that
they can get all these people to do all
this work and pay them all this
guaranteed money and the NFL still gets
to keep all the profits,
>> right? And they can resell it like six
times over,
>> right? The NFL doesn't have to film the
games other than NFL films. They don't
have to, you know, have the broadcast
trucks. They don't have to have the
relationship with the consumer and do
all the direct marketing to the consumer
to onboard to their direct video
platform. They don't have to sell the
ads to the advertisers. They somehow
have outsourced and commoditized all of
that. And I think they get to keep the
vast majority of the profits and will
continue to shift that balance in their
favor.
>> This is probably a good time to bring up
the Amazon deal that we've referred to
with Thursday Night Football and news is
coming out. This is the first season
that Amazon is the exclusive destination
for Thursday Night Football, right?
>> Correct. Yeah. They used to air Thursday
Night Football also on Fox and on the
NFL network, which is the NFL's own
channel to do mostly non-game
programming, but some experimental stuff
themselves like Red Zone and alternate
game broadcasts. But Thursday night is
just Amazon now. And news is coming out
now right at the end of the season that
from a economics perspective for Amazon
and an ad basis it vastly underperformed
expectations.
>> Yeah. So then Amazon is having to do
make goods with the advertisers because
Amazon wasn't able to get enough people
to watch the streams because frankly I
think a lot of people want to watch the
NFL on TV and it's kind of complicated
to figure out how to stream it and watch
it through Amazon and I know it can just
happen on my little set top box and my
Apple TV install the app and this that
and the other thing but you know what's
easier for most people turning on
channel 3. So it's totally fascinating
watching the balance of power in the
value chain. You might think, "Huh,
well, is the packaging component that
the NFL does of the talent and the
coaches and creating the storylines
actually where all the value lies?" It's
interesting to me that the players, the
NFL PA has managed to negotiate for half
the revenue. Good on the players
association for getting that big a piece
of the pie because they've actually done
a pretty good job of managing to shift
some of the value from the NFL even
further upstream to the NFL suppliers
rather than letting it all sort of
collect in the packaging component that
the NFL has.
>> Yep. Doing this whole episode has made
me really realize that there is a huge
amount of value ad that the NFL
and their partners bring to the product
beyond the players. Now, nobody should
ever shed a tear for the NFL and the
owners at the expense of the players
ever. But if you were to make an
argument that the players are
everything, they are the product. The
game on the field that they play is the
product. Full stop. they should get much
more. I don't think that's a fair
argument. They play a football game, but
the NFL's product is sports
entertainment.
>> Yes, completely agree with that. There
is a very interesting one, which is on a
revenue basis, you know, it's an $18
billion a year revenue business. The NFL
actually owns way more mind share than
its revenue would illustrate. A strange
statement to make is the NFL is an oddly
small business for how large a role it
plays in our lives. And to contextualize
who else makes $18 billion in revenue,
General Mills, Adobe, and Hallebertton.
The NFL's share of lips is way higher
than any of those companies products. I
continue to think that networks are just
on this treadmill where they're just
going to keep paying more and more and
more for NFL rights until is actually
non-economic for them to do so, but then
they'll be in so deep that it's pretty
hard to recover from that.
>> Yeah. I've got one more playbook theme.
Buying any professional sports franchise
10 to 15 years ago was an incredible
trade for two reasons. By the way, just
to add some numbers to it, the average
NFL team value 1.2 billion in 2012. So
that's a decade ago. Average 1.2 billion
and today is about 4.5 billion for the
average NFL team. We're not talking
Cowboys. We're not talking Giants. If
those were to change hands,
>> yep, those are based on Forbes
valuations. You can't trust those
valuations. I think any actual trade
would have to be higher than that. The
reason number one is just scarcity
value. There are a finite number of
these things and they're not making
more. And there are a lot of people that
want to own them for a lot of reasons,
not all of which are economic.
>> Yep.
>> So, that's one. And that's never going
to change.
>> The owning an NFL team, it's like a
grown-up NFT.
>> It is the ultimate NFT. If you are a
gajillionaire and you want to flex on
other gajillionaires, this is a way that
at least is very likely to have a lot of
durable value for you to get to keep
doing that regardless of its underlying
cash flows.
>> That is a net present happiness value
positive trade for a lot of
billionaires. But I will say when you
have something that increases in value
because of social signaling and
desiraability and not tied to underlying
cash flows, that is a potential sign of
a valuation bubble. No, not always.
There's luxury watches that have kept
their value for centuries, but it should
make you wonder. I mean, team values
have ballooned to the point where there
are very, very few people who can buy
one today.
>> Yeah. Which means that a change in
sentiment among that very narrow market
will have a huge impact. Totally.
>> But for now, I think the valuations are
probably safe.
>> Oo. All right. We'll to see in a few
years. I think they've reached a
plateau. I don't think we're going
anywhere north of 8 n billion in the
near future.
>> Oh, I agree. I just don't think you're
going to see these things.
>> You don't think they're going to
deflate?
>> No, they're not going to trade at fire
sale prices.
>> Yeah. The average revenue multiple in
2012 of a team went from about 4x to
about 8x between 2012 and 2022.
>> Wow. So yeah, multiple expansion along
with the rest of the market, but I think
this is going to be more durable
>> potentially justified by the fact that
most people don't actually own these
things for their cash generating
characteristics anyway. It's a very
fancy gem.
>> Yep. Totally. Okay, so that's one. But
then point number two is I think there
was a narrative around cord cutting 10
years ago that was linear broadcast
television is dead, live sports and
especially football at the last bastion.
But who knows how long this will last.
And I think what I at least and a lot of
people didn't see back then is that
these leagues, the NFL especially, are
going to be totally fine in a post
linear TV era. And no further proof is
needed, then Amazon and Google are the
latest people to pay boatloads of money
to the NFL.
>> Yep. The NFL will make the transition to
digital distribution. And it's pretty
amazing that they didn't need to build
it themselves. MLB did the whole BAM
techch thing. The NFL has built
basically no technology, basically no
distribution, and basically no direct
relationship with the audience. And
they'll still be fine.
>> And they'll still be fine.
>> They outsourced all the hard parts
>> and they also completely whiffed on
strategy for the social media era. But
they're still fine.
>> Yeah, it is wild. We talked about this a
lot on the NBA episode, but just to
recap here, because the story hasn't
really changed, LeBron has well over a
100 million social media followers,
>> Instagram alone.
>> And the two largest NFL players by
social media following are OBJ and Tom
Brady, both of which are in the low
teens. So, like a 10x difference. Isn't
that interesting that people don't want
to follow NFL stars the way they want to
follow NBA stars on social media?
>> I think if I remember right, the core
thesis of our NBA episode is what they
got so right through the social media
era was give the players the voice, give
the players the platform, the individual
person is the hero on social media. And
that's so antithetical
>> and the NFL is control the message.
>> And that's also reflective of the sports
themselves, right? Like NFL players wear
helmets, basketball players don't wear
helmet, you know, like it's that's
little stuff, but it doesn't matter. As
a business, NFL's fine. They're totally
fine.
>> Yep. While we're contrasting leagues,
there's this pretty interesting thing
that I've been thinking about, which is
this cooperative capitalist communism
thing that the NFL did. It was really
good at creating parody among teams to
be the most competitive. But let's take
it to the level of the players.
Interestingly enough, the NFL has been
the best of any of the leagues at
creating the narrowest band of player
compensation in the same philosophy that
they applied to the league competition.
Now, of course, it is nowhere near equal
pay among players. And like, yes, it's a
bummer that while Aaron Rogers makes $50
million a year, there's a long tale of
players that only play one to three
years making league minimum and then
turnout, which I think is mids
singledigit millions of lifetime
compensation from football. So still
that's good money.
>> Yeah. Lifetime though. So players are
definitely variably rewarded based on
their value to any given team. But the
NBA and the MLB are way less equal than
the NFL. The superstars in the NBA like
LeBron James including sponsorships
makes $127 million a year. There is no
one in the sport of football that comes
close. There are three basketball and
three soccer players at the top of the
list before any football players. the
NFL has managed to sort of smooth the
curve more than other sports have.
>> Well, I think this is also related to
the social media thing and really this
is like the big divergence between the
players and the sports and the leagues.
NFL has a league, great, they're fine.
But the players, I think other league
players and especially the NBA have been
able to build wealth and businesses and
revenue streams much better than NFL
players because they're the platform and
the audience value acrru to them so much
more.
>> Yep. Agree.
>> LeBron, I think, is already a
billionaire and especially once his
playing days are over, he will be a
multi multi multi-billionaire because of
the influence that he has. Apparently,
LeBron James has signed some secret deal
with Nike for the rest of his lifetime.
That's something crazy high that is just
not even accounted for in these numbers.
>> Wow. This is actually a good place to
flip to power. Awesome. For new
listeners, this is the section we do in
analysis based on the great book by
Hamilton Helmer where we run through
each of his seven powers that a business
could have to earn long-term
differential profits versus its
competitors. And the seven powers are
counterpositioning, scale economies,
switching costs, network economies,
process power, branding, and cornered
resource. All right, I think they
definitely have a cornered resource. If
you want to watch professional football
played by this set of athletes, they are
the only game in town.
>> Yep, they absolutely have a cornered
resource.
>> Yeah, I think this is like maybe the
most clear cornered resource that we've
ever had on the show. Yep, completely
agree. And clearly this is why the fight
with the AFL is worth it. We need the
greatest players on earth to play this
game and we can't have them spread
across two leagues competing against
each other. If we have all the best
players, then we get to do all the
incredible things that the NFL has
gotten to do like the media rights
negotiations.
>> Yep. I think during the dawn of the TV
era, I think they were counterpositioned
against Major League Baseball in that
while decline in revenue from the gate
by adding TV certainly was a hit to
them, it wasn't as much of an
existential hit in the way it was for
Major League Baseball. And so the NFL
was more able and willing to experiment
with the new business model of TV as the
primary revenue source than baseball.
>> Yeah, certainly. And I think
generalizing from that, I agree with
even more that this for the greater good
mindset was easier to do when everyone's
individual franchise was smaller. But
when you've got these teams that have
already been around for a hundred years,
like good luck talking them out of a
machine that already works well,
>> right? There's no way even in 1949
that the Yankees would have agreed to a
league first mindset.
>> Yes.
>> Let alone today.
>> Yep.
>> When they have their own television
network, etc.
>> Yep. You know, I've been thinking about
branding. I actually don't think this
one has branding power because the
definition of branding power is if
somebody offers you the same thing with
a different brand on it, will you pay
more? The thing about getting multiple
congressional antitrust exemptions is
that there isn't another game in town. I
mean, there's sort of a rebooted XFL.
There's sort of a rebooted USFL,
but it's not that people don't care
about those because the NFL brand isn't
there. People don't care about them
because it's not good football. It all
comes back to cornered resource. They
have the players,
>> right? Exactly.
>> You could maybe put the antirust
exemption. You could kind of shoehorn
that into process power
>> or a cornered resource.
>> Oh yeah. Or a cornered resource. And
like you said, no new league is going to
have that.
>> It's like totally fascinating that the
government thinks it's good enough for
the country to issue an antirust
exemption. It's like, well, having a big
popular sports league is good for us.
So, let's enable that to be as big as
possible.
>> I think there's definitely scale
economies here in the sports
entertainment aspect of the product.
Yeah, there's no way you could spend the
amount of money it takes to produce a
good NFL game without the audience that
they have to justify that level of cost.
>> Even a single Sunday game would bankrupt
any startup league to put those kind of
production values in.
>> Right. I think it's about $44 million
per game is effectively what the average
broadcast partner is paying the NFL just
for like one single game.
>> Yeah. And just for the rights,
>> right? If you're the NFL, if you can go
make $44 million by making a game
happen, and that doesn't include
anything on the field, selling tickets
or that's revenue just from piping that
game to a TV network or they're not even
doing the piping, allowing a TV network
to come on the field
>> to show up and produce the game.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Then you can afford to have a
whole bunch of costs to make that
experience happen.
>> Yep.
>> Value creation, value capture. And the
way that I want to do value creation,
value capture here is of the value
created by the NFL in the world, how
much of it do they capture? There's an
thing we didn't talk about, which is
taxpayer funded stadiums. All the
research you read about new stadiums
that are funded by taxpayers, and not
every stadium is funded by taxpayers.
Like the new Giants Jets one in New York
is funded by the team in the NFL,
whereas like the Bills one is going to
be funded by the state of New York
largely. And every piece of research you
read there is like, yeah, they're at
best break even for communities, unless
it's part of some like larger economic
redevelopment thing. So, I think the NFL
has they're now unbelievably extractive
of the networks. They've historically
been very extractive of players, but now
the players seem to have a pretty good
or at least better deal than they ever
had before. And NFL teams are very
extractive of communities in these
stadium deals. And I think if you look
at the $18 billion a year of revenue,
the NFL, if you include the players,
captures as much value as it possibly
can. They are unbelievably good at value
capture.
>> I mean, they literally resell the same
meteorites like multiple times over.
>> Yes, value capture pioneers, I believe,
is a phrase that we used on another
episode.
>> Okay, that's got to be another acquired
Merch star t-shirt. But it is amazing
how much mind share the NFL does own in
my opinion on top of the actual revenue
number. They don't leave a lot of
consumer surplus in dollars. But given
our earlier conversation that 18 billion
isn't that much revenue compared to
other companies we've covered on this
show. Maybe there is some kind of
unquantifiable consumer mind share that
does exist on top of any of the revenue
they generate. How can you put a price
on the fun of a Super Bowl party or
texting about an amazing catch with your
dad or, you know, there's all sorts of
things that are hard to value? Well,
it's also a little bit similar to the
trading value of NFL teams and like what
price would they actually trade at? Even
as the NFL has become this incredible
business, they don't trade at rational
economic prices because the people
buying them are doing net present
happiness value equations, you know, not
economic value.
>> Right. As we talked about, these NFL
teams are valued more like scarce
speechfront property more so than cash
flowing businesses.
>> Yep.
>> I'd be curious to hear anyone's thought
on if the NFL generates more value than
$18 billion a year.
Interestingly, the NFL today is less
about sort of what it was in the 40s,
50s, and 60s. This team of guys who
really hates another team and wants to
destroy them at all costs. And they're
led by this fearless leader who's
probably also their owner and maybe a
player on the team. At this point, the
players seem to recognize that they're
all basically employees. And the players
are more in it together as co-workers
than they are against each other. Even
for players who were on opposite teams,
the way that before and after a game,
they'll come and hug each other or
rekindle a relationship with another
player. At the end of the day, they all
work for the owners. And so, it's
probably a good thing for them to
recognize that now, the real reality on
the field. And at least it means they're
going to be better at arguing what's
fair for them from a business that
demands an immense amount and maybe even
years off their lives for a lot of
people. So, let's not end on that note.
Let's close with what's the bear case
and what's the bull case for the NFL
going forward. We've talked about a lot
of the Bears. The cooperative armor that
has got them here begins to shatter,
youth not playing, player safety issues,
the failure of international expansion.
But I'm curious to hear your thoughts on
a bullcase for the NFL.
>> Uh, my bull case is what I've been
saying here for a while now on analysis
is the Lindy effect. I kind of think all
this is noise from a business standpoint
for the NFL and a staying power
standpoint. It's not going anywhere.
It's one of the most incredible cornered
resources in the world. It's going to be
completely fine.
>> I completely agree with you. And it's
funny, all the negative stuff we've
talked about. The NFL will continue to
be a ginormous, successful, and growing
business for a long time is my opinion.
And of course, we haven't even talked
about the sports betting which is now
legal in the United States. And you
know, I just want to say too, like doing
this episode, it was really fun. And
just like on a personal note, I've had a
I think probably similar relationship to
football with you over the years, more
complicated, too, because I played for
many years.
>> Yeah.
>> I had, you know, certainly a lot of
mixed emotions over the past decade,
including many years where I just
stopped watching football altogether.
And it was really fun doing this, like
re-engaging with the game, re-engaging
with all the content around the game,
all the entertainment content. Like, it
is great. So, I think the game is going
to be fine. Clearly, the business is
going to be fine. I'm glad we did this.
>> All this to say, can't wait to watch the
playoffs.
>> Me, too. You ready for some football?
>> I am ready for some football. All right,
10 second carve out on my end. Go watch
the menu. It was a unbelievably fun
movie. Beautifully shot. That's all I
have to recommend. David,
>> my carve out was gonna be Payton's
Places on ESPN Plus.
>> Oh, so good.
>> Which I know we talked about it, but Oh,
it's so good. Nostalgia Lindy effect.
It's right there. Go watch it.
>> It's true.
>> All right, listeners. Hello again from
January of 2026. David and I are back.
>> Hello, Ben.
>> From the present in our time traveling
NFL episode, we have some updates to
where we left things here in our NFL
episode. And I am staring at a lot of
notes that I have taken from a bunch of
conversations that I've had over the
last week and a half with folks in and
around the league reading a bunch of
news stories and press releases of the
earthshattering things that have
happened that have really changed the
NFL's trajectory over the last three
years.
>> Me too. Can't wait to get into it.
>> So, we talked a little bit about
international and we were very sort of
negative and poo pooing of the league's
prospects internationally. I think when
we recorded there was just games in
London and Germany or maybe we were one
year off from that. But there are now
seven international games across five
countries and they have publicly stated
that there is a goal to get to 16
international games per year.
>> They're not backing away from this.
>> Yes, this is full steam ahead on this
strategy. And as we've seen in the past,
when the NFL decides that something is
its strategy, they tend to see it
through.
>> And this past season, I think it was
kickoff weekend, right? Was the Sao
Paulo game in Brazil streamed by YouTube
for free in front of the payw wall
globally.
>> Yes. Exclusively on YouTube.
>> Yeah, that was huge. If you had told us
in 2023 that that would be happening a
few short years later, even with all we
talked about about how, you know,
streaming and the tech companies and
digital being ahead for NFL, I don't
think we would have believed it.
>> Yeah, they are starting to build some
local fan bases there.
>> Well, I think maybe next season we got
to do a boondoggle and go to one of
these games
for sure. Okay, my second one.
viewership has hit an all-time high and
we sort of talked about how it topped
out and it flattened and you know the
NFL is already saturated. It did grow.
The regular season had its best TV
ratings in 36 years. The league posted
an average delivery of 18.7 million
viewers per game. That is a 10% gain
year-over-year. But if you look back 15
years to 2011, the number was 17 and a
half million compared to the record 18.7
this year. So if you look at it just
over the last few years, it looks like
this great growth rate. But if you look
at it over the last 20, it kind of tells
the story of we've hit this saturation
number.
>> Yeah, actually it dipped for a while and
now it's back.
>> Right. The Super Bowl though did
legitimately hit an all-time high,
127 million viewers, and that is after
the previous year was also an all-time
high. This is the ultimate appointment
viewing thing to watch on TV. It is the
premier TV flagship event, and it only
gets more and more and more premiere
each year. Well, we might have a little
more to say on this, but certainly the
Taylor Swift crossover helped with the
Super Bowl uh viewership numbers over
the last couple years.
>> Yes. One other point that I did miss
while we're in TV broadcast land on the
episode. David, I don't know if you knew
this structurally,
TV networks actually get paid in two
ways. When we were sort of talking
about, oh, the viewership has sort of
stagnated, so why do they get to charge
more and more and more for ads? the
networks buy the rights, you know, Fox
or NBC buys a rights package, they show
the game. I assumed they were only
getting compensated with ad revenue and
then sort of indirectly for like
retaining those viewers for whatever
programming they also had on the
network. There is a second very large
revenue stream called retransmission
fees. Did you know about this?
>> Ah, yes. Oh man, going back to my days
as a media investment banker.
>> Yeah. So starting in the mid late 2000s,
that's at least when they kind of got
material, the networks started being
able to charge cable companies for the
right to retransmit stuff that they have
the rights to.
>> Yeah, this is NBC, ABC, Fox charging the
cable companies to bring those broadcast
networks onto the cable companies even
though they are also available for free
over the air to consumers.
>> Right? But if you have a cable package
and in your cable package you choose to
go to the NBC station, then NBC gets
paid by the cable company for bringing
you as a viewer. I think that revenue
stream was almost as large as the
advertising revenue stream. So they have
these two big pillars of their business,
the direct subscription revenue that
comes from retransmission fees and the
advertising revenue. Obviously,
retransmission is sort of dwindling as
cable dwindles, but the belief is, well,
hey, with Peacock or with Fox Sports or
any of these apps, we have our own
direct monetization or even, you know,
if we're included in YouTube TV, one way
or another, we're getting the equivalent
of a subscriber fee for this, too. And
obviously that's a subscription that is
paid for all of the networks
programming, but as we talked about on
the episode, basically it's the NFL that
matters here.
>> Yeah. Sports and in particular premium
sports and in particular particular the
NFL is really where ad spend is sort of
shifting on TV spend.
>> It's the reason consumers reach into
their wallet.
>> Yes. and sports are sort of eating a
larger and larger percentage of the pie
of TV ad revenue. And you could make an
argument they were sort of under earning
for many years, but as the last thing
that you actually watch on TV is these
premium live sports, they are definitely
commanding the revenues that they long
deserved. So why has viewership
increased so much? or why have people
been really wanting to pay attention to
NFL games over the last couple years?
What could have possibly changed that
would make people pay attention? Well,
we said earlier in the episode that if
you got money writing on a game, you are
much more likely to care about it, even
if you don't care about any of these
teams gambling. So, the Supreme Court
decision came down, I believe, made it a
states rights issue of what type of
gambling, sports gambling to allow. I
think that's correct.
>> Many states made it legal. And so in the
episode we said 46 million Americans bet
on the NFL 3 years ago. Estimates are
that this year that number has grown to
76 million Americans.
>> Yeah. I I mean this is a huge new
revenue stream for the NFL and it drives
the flywheel too. It's not just directly
participating through their
relationships with the gambling
companies, but also this drives Sunday
ticket subscriptions. This drives
engagement with the game.
>> Yes. It's a giant win for driving
viewership.
>> Yeah. I mean, that's like another
incremental 30-ish million people that
are now betting on the NFL versus a
couple years ago
>> versus the 46 from a couple years ago.
Yeah.
>> That's a lot more people that now care a
lot more about what's happening on
Sundays and Mondays and Thursdays. Isn't
it funny that if something is illegal
but people really want to do it, they do
it. But then if you make it legal, a lot
more people do it. Sort of like a lot of
people use Napster, but then when you
let people buy songs on iTunes, Easy
Beats free, a hell of a lot more people
started actually buying music than ever
pirated it.
>> Yep.
>> Let's actually quantify it. The
estimates are that the NFL's gambling
related sponsorships are about $200
million a year between DraftKings,
FanDuel, and Caesars. And then there's
these companies that they don't have a
partnership with, but obviously drive a
ton of interest with Poly Market and
Khi, these prediction markets that have
popped up. So you might say like, oh,
200 million a year, that's nothing
compared to the NFL's topline revenue.
But Neielson estimated the indirect
impact, like we were talking about, on
the league in in every way that it helps
the flywheel to be about $2.3 billion
per year that the league benefits from
from the legalization of sports betting.
>> I mean, that's basically what, like
another Sunday ticket package on top of
the existing revenue streams.
>> Each of the packages is in the sort of
$2 billion neighborhood. So that's
exactly right. And then while we're
talking about revenue, revenue, it just
grew even more than they expected. So
there's now, I think when we did the
episode, we said something about 18
billion a year. The league now does over
$23 billion per year across all teams.
That's on track to surpass 25 billion,
which was their goal by 2027. They're
going to easily beat this number. I
mean, I thought when we were recording,
wow, by 27, they really think they're
going to surpass 25 billion. But if
they're already at 23 billion, yeah,
they'll beat it easily. The wild thing
is Roger Goodell made that estimate in
2010. Wow. Revenue was only $8 billion
then. Wow. I think the takeaway is the
league is extremely good at predicting
what this revenue is going to look like.
And because of the structure that we've
talked about all episode with the way
that the salary cap and the TV deals
interplay and the length of the TV
deals, it's just extremely knowable what
the future of the league looks like.
Also, we should say too that is a
superlative management performance to
set a target like that and hit it.
>> Yeah.
>> Purely as a like business manager,
management team, the owners collectively
and you know, Roger Goodell and the
office of the NFL.
>> Yeah. They're good at their job.
>> They're very good at their jobs.
Okay, so listeners, this is a great
moment to talk about one of our favorite
companies here at Acquired, Sentry.
That's S N T R Y, like someone standing
guard. And fittingly for this NFL
episode, they are doing something very
fun next week for the Super Bowl
experience in San Francisco. On Friday,
February 6th, Sentry and another friend
of the show, Verscel, are having a huge
party at Joyide Pizza, right in the
heart of the fan zone in Yerba Buena
Gardens. Visit luma.com/sliceelab
to get on the list and we'll put that in
the show notes. And while they're not
setting up parties in San Francisco
outside the Super Bowl, Sentry helps
developers debug errors and latency
issues. So pretty much any software
problem that you encounter and then of
course fix them before users get mad.
And as their homepage puts it, it's
considered not bad by millions of
software developers.
>> Yep. So one great example is how
Anthropic uses them. Anthropic used to
have some older infrastructure
monitoring in place. But as their
massive scale and complexity just
skyrocketed, they instead adopted Sentry
to help them find and fix issues faster.
>> Crashes can be a massive problem in AI.
If you're running a big compute job like
training a model and one node fails, it
can affect hundreds or thousands of
servers. So, Sentry helped them detect
bad hardware so they could quickly
reject it before causing a cascading
problem. Sentry enabled them to debug
massive issues in hours instead of days
so they can get back to their training
runs. And today, Anthropic relies on
Sentry to track exceptions, assign
errors, and analyze failures in real
time. Whether it's Python or Rust or
C++, anything.
>> We love Sentry. They've got an
incredible customer list, including not
only Anthropic, but Cursor, Verscell,
Linear, and more. So, if you want to fix
broken code, like the over 150,000
organizations that use Sentry, from
indie hobbyists all the way up to some
of the biggest companies in the world,
you can check out sentry.io/acquired
to learn more. And they're offering 2
months free to all acquired listeners.
That's s.io/acquired.
And just tell them that Ben and David
sent you. Okay. So before I throw it
over to you, I want to talk about
streaming because we alluded to that. It
has become much more prominent as a
strategy for the NFL and as a way to
consume games and it has gone much
better than we expected. So we were sort
of poo pooing the Amazon Prime
partnership and saying, "Oh, they
weren't hitting targets and they had to
do make goods.
>> Uh, no more of those."
>> That's not happening anymore. So, in the
2025 season, Thursday Night Football on
Prime averaged 15.33
million viewers in the highest ever
average for Thursday Night Games across
its 20 year history. So, that's still
slightly underperforming the average
game viewership throughout the season,
but it's Thursday night and it's only
available streaming.
>> Yeah. I mean, compared to the Thursday
nights on the NFL network days, which we
will get into in a sec, it's a big
increase.
>> And plus, we had a century of training
people that you watch football on
Sundays and you watch it on a broadcast
network. And the fact that we're already
close to parody with this completely
different channel is wild.
122 million unique people watch Thursday
Night Football. That's up 50 million
people since 2022.
And on the Black Friday game on Prime,
that was up 21% year-over-year. And
probably the biggest sign either that
it's working or part of the reason it's
working is Thursday night actually has
great games on now. I don't think I've
missed a Thursday night all season.
>> Yeah, same.
>> There was the YouTube exclusive game
that we alluded to. This is just a very
interesting prediction for the future.
It was week one. It was their
international game and it was
exclusively available on YouTube
globally.
>> Yeah. So that's the sort of big thing
here is YouTube is an expansion
opportunity for the NFL. It's the way to
reach a global audience and that is the
NFL's ability to expand. We sort of
talked about how they've saturated
America. So it's all these new eyeballs
in exactly the markets where they're
trying to expand to. It's different
demographics excuse younger. And again,
David, your comment on the big bet to
put it free in front of the payw wall.
That's sort of a tenant of the NFL is if
you are a fan of a team, then you should
be able to watch all of their games for
free the entire year. But this is even
one step further, which is that everyone
in any market can watch this game for
free, which is very different than how
they approach most of their media
rights.
>> Yeah. I mean, if the NFL can figure this
out together with YouTube and then also
Netflix, now they have the Christmas
games with Netflix. Netflix is also a
global streaming platform. I mean, make
everything else look quaint. You know,
Fox or CBS in America. How many
households is that going to? 100, 120,
130. How many users does YouTube have? A
couple billion. That is a massive
unlock.
>> Yep. And Netflix just announced they
have 325 million paying subscribers,
>> right? But yeah, I mean if they can
figure out YouTube and global and
Netflix of course will be part of that
too, you can understand why they have
been steadfast in investing
internationally and investing in
technology.
>> Yes. Isn't it crazy to think that the
growth governor for the NFL was the
reach of the national television
networks?
>> Yes. That's the thing holding them back
from having more of an addressable
audience. And now with these tech
platforms, you actually do have a
globally addressable audience, one
single platform that aggregates all
these people from all these different
places. And you can distribute your
content wider. But I keep going back to
the saturation point. It's nuts that CBS
and NBC's reach was the problem with the
NFL's growth targets.
>> Right, right, right, right, right,
right.
Amazing. So last ad on you mentioned
Netflix. The Netflix Christmas games
averaged 30 million people.
>> Oh wow. Yeah. That's significantly
larger than an average game on network
TV.
>> Yeah. The 18 million figure, but the NFL
completely overtook the NBA to be the
Christmas tradition.
>> Right. Right. H Well, hey, NBA's got a
new big meteorite steel. Nobody should
shed a tear for them.
>> Yes. Well, speaking of networks and
media rights, one thing that we touched
on briefly in the episode was that the
NFL owned and operated its own cable
network.
>> Curiously, for a while, sort of counter
to their strategy.
>> Yeah, a little bit of strategy conflict
there. Well, it looks like that strategy
conflict is going to be resolved, I
think, in a huge win way for the NFL.
So, August 2025, the NFL reached a deal
with Disney and ESPN to essentially sell
the NFL network, the NFL's cable
network, and the NFL's official fantasy
app to ESPN for a 10% equity stake in
all of ESPN in return for this swap.
This is awesome for all sides, assuming
this deal goes through. It's in
regulatory review right now. And the
strategy that they have with everything
else is just so genius. Oh, we don't
have to do the operational cost of
producing the games, which I saw an
estimate that over the course of a
season, a broadcaster spends over $400
million rolling out cameras and paying
cameramen and production trucks and
everything. And it is funny that the NFL
a little bit got into that business and
built out to TV studio and had
commentators. And
>> I think this deal is awesome, assuming
it goes through. The NFL, like we're
saying, realized they don't really want
to be in the business of operating a
linear TV channel. This is just pure
like non-strategic overhead cost that
they're offloading. Similarly, though,
it's not like Disney and ESPN are just
taking this off their hands as a favor.
They also know that they need to shift
out of the linear cable TV business. And
so the timing of this coincided right
with launching the full ESPN direct to
consumer over-the-top streaming service
ESPN Unlimited,
>> which is for people who don't know,
there used to be or there is a thing
called ESPN Plus, which actually was
basically ESPN Minus.
>> Yeah, it was like a neutered version of
ESPN.
>> It's like all the ESPN stuff except the
stuff you want to watch because you need
to subscribe to a cable bundle for that
because we make so much freaking money
on the cable bundle that we're not going
to give it to you direct. Yeah. No
Sports Center, no live NFL games, blah
blah blah. No Monday Night Football.
>> And now they have like actual ESPN that
you can get over the top in an app
streaming.
>> Yeah. So this is now like a hold dumping
all of the NFL media rights for some
games, but also all of this ancillary
content and NFL films content, right? is
Disney is now going out and making the
pitch to consumers. Hey, in addition to
Disney Plus and Hulu, also subscribe to
ESPN Unlimited and you know, your new
digital streaming cable bundle
essentially.
>> Yep. Now, here's where it gets really
interesting for the NFL. Already
their rights partners were moving to
much more of a tech company digital mix
than cable networks and broadcast
networks with Google, Netflix, with
Amazon, etc. in doing this deal, they're
now essentially helping stand up another
digital bidder for future media rights
with this new ESPN standalone streaming
service. Like, it is vastly in the NFL's
interest for a standalone digital ESPN
streaming service to be viable to then
also be a bidder on their future meteor
rights. So, they're helping make sure
that that happens. And they're getting a
10% equity stake in the whole thing,
too. So, this is a great deal.
>> It is a great deal. I mean, giving a 10%
ownership stake of ESPN to one sports
league really does establish how
important the NFL is to ESPN.
>> And to be clear, it's not like the NFL
is just getting a 10% stake in the new
ESPN streaming service. They're getting
a 10% stake in ESPN, the whole thing.
>> Yeah. Fascinating deal. So, some other
things I wanted to follow up on. We made
some pretty hefty points around Gen Z
and their love for the NBA and how the
NFL doesn't really hold a candle. This
is really messy data. I realize the only
real way to do this is ask Amazon.
They stream the NBA. They stream the
NFL. They have logged in accounts where
they know people's demographic
informations.
>> Right?
>> That would be the real way to answer
this question. But I do kind of want to
walk back some of my concerns about the
NFL's future because Gen Z likes the NBA
more. I think the data is just actually
not that clear on that.
>> Yep.
>> And we also talked a lot, even not with
Gen Z, just about the rise of the NBA
and popularity and fame and all that
stuff. If you just look at the numbers,
the Super Bowl draws 127 million viewers
and that is growing. The NBA Finals per
game draws just 10 million viewers, down
from its peak in the 25 to 30 million
during the Michael Jordan era in the9s.
>> Wow. And if you look at viewership
during the regular season, that tells a
similar story. We threw out the 18
million number for the NFL per game.
Even the NBA's national broadcast, not
just the regional sports networks, but
the national ones on ESPN and TNT, those
average 1 to two million fans. This is
everything we talked about in the
episode. The NFL is the most perfectly
designed league. Maybe with the
exception of IPL, now that we've done
that.
>> That's right.
>> The most perfectly designed American
league for a media product.
>> Listeners, even if you don't care about
cricket, if you like thinking about the
design of sports leagues, that episode
was very fun to do.
>> Very, very fun. But that said, even now,
a couple years later, and even now after
the Taylor Swift crossover, the social
media gap between players in the NFL and
players in the NBA absolutely still
persists.
>> So, I believe Travis Kelce is the active
NFL player for now with the highest
number of Instagram followers these
days. He has just under 8 million
followers on Instagram. Patrick Mahomes
has six and a half. Tom Brady has 15.
Obviously, he's retired. LeBron James
has 157 million Instagram followers. And
it's not just LeBron. Steph Curry has
60. There are a bunch of NBA players
with 20 to 30. You know, you can debate
the value of all this, but like it's
wild that number one in the NFL is under
eight and one in the NBA is 157 and
number two is 60.
>> Yes. The difference is staggering. I bet
this is true when you look at follower
counts. But if you think about it a
different way, which is how much social
media stuff do I get about NFL versus
about NBA? Most of the time when you
follow LeBron, it's not like he's
putting up game footage three times a
day. So, you're watching highlights, but
I bet if you try to look at football
content on social media versus
basketball content on social media, it
becomes clear that the follower counts
are more due to like celebrity status
versus engagement around the game.
>> That's what I was going to say. Back
when we originally made this episode, I
think these numbers and the difference
mattered a lot more. these days, you
know, whatever inning we're in in social
media, like we've shifted away from
follower counts and more towards
algorithm and more Tik Tokification of
everything. So, yeah, I think pure
follower counts is not a great measure.
And I think also, you know, an
unmeasurable thing is just cultural
relevance. And to me, it feels
undeniable that the NFL's cultural
relevance has grown a lot in the last
few years.
>> Well, yes. And a thing that's extremely
measurable is how much money people make
and using that as a proxy. So we were
sort of ripping on the fact that LeBron
makes 127 million a year in disclosed
deals between his contract and all of
his sponsorships and no one in the NFL
even comes close. That's just not true
anymore. Pat Mahomes is making 90
annually and about half of that is his
Chiefs steel and about half of that is
other endorsements. State Farm, Adidas,
Oakley, Head and Shoulders, Equity
Ownership. And then it's not just him,
too. You got Josh Allen at 75 million,
Lamar Jackson, Joe Burrow, Aaron Rogers.
There's real comparable dollar amounts
for sponsorships with these guys.
>> Even just to stick on Travis Kelce here
for a minute, I mean, the New Heights
podcast reportedly signed a hundred
million plus deal with Amazon. That's
right there for, you know, one show.
Forget everything else that Travis and
Jason are doing, etc. That's putting a
dollar amount on cultural relevance for
sure.
>> Yes. Exactly. I also just feel it in my
life, too. I mean, like my wife Jenny
couldn't care less about football, but
especially since Taylor and Travis, she
knows whether Taylor's going to the
games or not. She knows that Kyle used
on the 49ers that his wife designed the
jacket that Taylor wore to the playoffs
last year. All of this might not be
directly monetizable for the NFL, but it
is growing the status and cultural
relevance of the game. All right. So,
let's go to Taylor and Travis. So, I
spent a long time really trying to find
longitudinal directly causal studies,
data, anything on this. The answer is
very, very likely. There was a massive
increase from Taylor on the NFL in
viewership and engagement and attention
and new fans. But what we do know for
sure is there's heavy correlation on
lots of little data points. So, here are
a few of them just to throw around at
your next cocktail party.
>> I love that you did this, by the way. I
was wondering how quantitative you would
get with this.
>> So, in the first year of the
relationship, September of 23 to
September of 24, the NFL added 4 million
female fans. The Chiefs were 3.4 million
of those.
>> Wow. Okay. That is the Taylor effect
right there.
>> Again, correlation, but
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I'm not a
statistician, but I think that's
significant.
>> The biggest demographic or
subdemographic of those 4 million is
women under 35, which is a traditionally
very weak demographic for the NFL. Is
one of the few areas of the US where
they actually had room to expand.
Another data point, Super Bowl 58 in
February of 24 had a 24% increase in 18
to 24 year old women and a 9% increase
across all women. And then lastly, Clark
Hunt, the owner of the Kansas City
Chiefs, went on the Pat McAfee show and
he said that before Taylor, the Chiefs
fan base was about 50/50, male female,
which in itself is amazing. I mean, the
league
>> that's surprising. Yeah. has just done a
lot of work to make it a sort of family
sport, a household sport. But Post
Taylor, the fan base at the Chiefs is
57% women, 43% men.
>> Oh, that's amazing. And obviously, this
is all really fun and, you know, is like
the ultimate crossover for us because we
did our Taylor Swift episode on the
business of Taylor Swift a couple years
ago. But having done our IPL episode
last year, obviously we're not saying
that the NFL strategy team, you know,
designed this negotiated this
relationship.
>> Right. Right. But if you look at IPL,
this strategy was part of their plans
from the very beginning and it's how
they made it a huge global sport and the
biggest sport in India was make
Bollywood an integral part of the
product. Y
>> I'm sure the NFL has been watching that
and has leaned into this opportunity in
a way that they might not have a decade
ago.
>> I'm fascinated that the NFL tried to
take kind of a hands-off approach at
first and the first couple broadcasts
there was a lot of heat for stop showing
Taylor Swift in the box and so they sort
of leaned away. But then the NFL
definitely made a decision at some point
that okay, we trust this now. We're in
on this. I mean, to me, that's one of
the huge lessons from IPL is the more
culturally irrelevant you can make your
sport and your league, the better it's
going to be for everything, including
and especially meteorites.
>> Yep. A thing that I paid zero attention
to that was brought to my attention is
the rise of flag football.
>> Yeah.
>> Have you seen any stats on this?
>> No, but I hear about it. So, it's the
way that a lot of women get into the
game because girls actually play flag
football now as kids and they were never
playing tackle football before. The NFL
actually has leagues or sponsors leagues
like local flag football leagues where
they all are named after NFL teams and
it's getting a lot more kids into the
game, especially as tackle football sort
of wanes in popularity due to the
concussion risk and injury risk. So from
2019 to 2023, tackle football decreased
5% for the youngest age group playing,
but flag football increased by 16%. So
this is, I believe, the fastest growing
youth sport in America. It's growing
really fast internationally as well,
which this is the 30-year win for the
NFL because if kids are playing flag
football in other countries, it's only a
short number of years before we see a
meaningful presence of NFL stars who are
not from America because they sort of
grew up playing Flag and then when they
hit 13, 14, 15 started playing tackle
football and that's going to be huge for
the international growth of the game.
Yeah, I mean that feels like one of the
last, if not the last remaining big
needle moving piece for the NFL. You
know, if you look at the NBA, if you
look at MLB, if you look at Formula 1,
if you look at IPL, the fact that so
many of the stars came from other
countries and bring that fan base along
with them is huge. And that has never
happened in the NFL.
>> Yep. But we're a short number of years
away from, I think, seeing a giant
breakout star who started in flag
football because it was a part of their
school or YMCA program from another
country. Also, flag football is going to
be in the Olympics.
>> Yeah. And the Pro Bowl has been flag
football for the last several years,
right?
>> Yep. Well, speaking of uh lower levels
of football,
we made a big deal early in the episode
about the origins of American football
and being intertwined with this elite
right of passage American collegiate
experience.
The NCAA is an absolute mess right now.
You could not have made it more
disorganized and done more of a
disservice to their sport, their game,
than how this has all played out. I
mean, if your goal is pay the players,
there are a thousand better ways to do
it than the way it has actually played
out.
>> Seriously. So, yeah. What actually
happened? Okay, so forever college
football, it was illegal to pay players
because they were amateurs and they
can't receive gifts or cars or
endorsement deals or anything. And then
there was a Supreme Court ruling a few
years ago where name image and likeness
became legal to monetize. And what sort
of ended up happening is these booster
groups popped up where groups of
>> alumni or people with vested interests
in the school
>> Yes. would pull money not through the
school, completely different than the
school, and they had funny sounding
named organizations and LLC's and
websites that looked a lot like the
school's colors, but weren't actually
affiliated. And they would do these
weird deals where they would tell the
AD, the athletic director or the coach
of a team, hey, we've raised X money. go
tell that high school recruit that if
that recruit plays for you, then we will
do a private side deal with them to pay
them money while they come and play for
your team. So, you have this strange
structure happening at the very same
time that they created the transfer
portal, which for a very long time, the
college game had this role where if
you're going to change schools, you have
to sit out for a year. So, it was a big
penalty. you actually had people who
were sort of like loyal to their
schools, who would play for their
schools for three or four years before
going to the NFL, who would sort of
build a reputation with that alumni fan
base. And with the transfer portal,
every year, people just decide
willy-nilly to enter it. I'm going to go
where I'm going to either make the most
money or have the best shot at NFL draft
prospects by getting more playing time.
The interesting thing is next year is
when the schools actually will start
being able to pay the players directly
and there's like a salary cap of sorts.
>> The reality is right now I think it's
all still too messy and in flux to
definitively say what the impact of all
this will be on the NFL. But to me, it's
just sort of like the uh final formal
nail in the coffin that football in
America is the NFL these days in a way
that when the NFL was starting, football
in America was the collegiate
experience.
>> That's interesting.
>> So, it's now like come full circle and
fully flipped that like the legitimate
football league is the NFL and the wild
west illegitimate who knows what's going
on is the NCAA. uncoordinated,
everybody just acting in their own
short-term best interest, including the
schools, the way that the super
conference alignment happened and the
Pack 12 completely blew up and it's just
so sad to watch as someone that was a is
a really big fan of college football.
One interesting take you and I both
heard from separate people is that it's
actually been good for the NFL because
now that players can make money in
college, there's not as much of an
incentive to get thrust into the NFL
before they're ready. They can sort of
develop longer mentally and physically
before coming to the NFL. So, we may
have sort of better rookie classes out
of the draft in future years as you sort
of see more sort of mature players
coming out. Yeah, our teams can be more
analytically confident in the draft
choices that they're making as a result
of this. That said, it's all still too
chaotic right now to tell.
>> Yes. All right. So, our big ultimate
thing here, team valuations have gone up
way more than I would have predicted.
>> Yeah, it's funny. You know, we spent the
whole original episode and now this
whole update section talking about all
the business drivers of the NFL and all
the trends and all the things that are
going on that theoretically should
increase the value of the league and its
teams. And it's ironic that probably the
one really big glaring area in the
original episode that we didn't cover at
all was the dynamics of team ownership
and thus collectively in aggregate
league ownership of the NFL. Now, this
is actually probably good because this
is also the single biggest thing that
changed in the NFL since we made the
original episode,
>> right?
>> Okay. So, what has happened over the
last couple years? The NFL has long had
a pretty strict code around team
ownership. So other sports leagues have
regulations too about who can own teams
and what ownership groups can exist,
etc. But the NFL has always had the
strictest set of regulations around
this. So, with the one grandfathered
exception of the Green Bay Packers,
which are a publiclyowned nonprofit
corporation,
>> sort of
>> sort of except for them, every other
team in the NFL must be controlled by a
single principal owner who is a natural
person and not a corporation.
And that person and their family must
have a minimum equity stake in their
franchise of 30%. And that must be pure
equity like funded with cash or by
appreciation of you know the value of
your ownership of the team by one person
one family. You are allowed to have debt
in your capital structure but the league
imposes a ceiling. That ceiling is
currently $800 million with one
exception.
>> Oh, they've denoted it as a number.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's not a percentage
because it's debt. So in your capital
structure, you can have a maximum of
$800 million of debt that you carry. You
can have about twice that if you are
buying a team. So they let you go double
it in the process of purchasing to have
more debt to finance the deal. But
obviously still, you know, double that
to 1.5.6 billion. That's not gonna buy
you a lot of an NFL team these days.
>> No. And we'll get to the real numbers,
but at most that's probably what a
quarter of what a team would cost.
>> Maybe for like the Bengals or somebody,
you know, not for a real team. No. No.
Bengals are great. Okay. So, that's the
principal owner needs this 30% stake
funded with cash. In addition to the
principal owner, that person is allowed
to have up to 24 other minority owners
as part of their ownership group. But
those 24 other people must be silent
with no operational control. And the way
they actually structure this is
hilarious. They structure it like an
investment fund. It's a GPLp entity. So
the principal owner is the general
partner and then all the minority
partners are limited partners.
>> Can they take fees and carry on their
LPS or is it a
>> We'll get back to that in a minute.
>> Okay. So, okay, for a long time, this
ownership structure and ownership code
was actually, I think, a key part to the
NFL's strategy working. It might have
actually been the single biggest driver
of this whole architecture that we've
talked about all episode working.
>> Permanent capital, individually held by
highly motivated, passionate
individuals, not thinking like a pool of
capital would.
>> Exactly. These are real flesh and blood
people, not corporations. They have
enormous skin of the game. A huge
portion of their family's wealth is
invested in the clubs. They run them
personally. They make the decisions.
They are, you know, effectively the CEOs
of these organizations. And you're able
to get all 32 of these people or, you
know, 31 plus the Packers into a room a
couple times a year and they can hash
out and say like, "Hey, these are the
things, you know, collective capitalism.
these are the things we're going to do
that are going to be good for the league
and putting teams second like
negotiating central national media
rights etc etc etc.
>> Yeah.
>> So all of this worked great until the
summer of 2023 when the Washington
commanders
formerly until recently at that point
known as the Washington Redskins
stumbled into a distressed situation. We
don't need to get into all the details
here, but most folks who are followers
of the NFL probably know that then
principal team owner Dan Snyder, who had
owned the team for almost a quarter
century,
essentially
got brought down by a whole series of
scandals. There was sexual harassment.
There was workplace harassment. There
was financial improprieties.
There was the fact that he steadfastly
refused to change the name of the team
for like a decade even after it's kind
of untenable what the name was.
>> Yeah. You needed an ownership change and
suddenly you needed it fast.
>> Yeah. If you go to Dan Snyder's
Wikipedia page, it literally says on his
Wikipedia page, Snyder is widely
considered to be one of the worst owners
in the history of North American
professional sports and has a whole
train of citations after that. This
ultimately ends up in 2021 23 in a US
Congressional investigation into the
Redskins/Commanders and Dan Snider's
ownership of them. And at the end of 22,
as these investigations are ongoing, the
rest of the owners in the NFL finally
decide like enough. We need to kick this
guy out of the league and force him to
sell the team, which they can do by the
NFL's bylaws. If there is a
supermajority vote of at least 24 of the
other principal team owners, they can
force one of the other owners to devest
the team. Now, it doesn't actually come
down to a vote, but just by virtue of
having that leverage in 2023, Snyder
finally steps down, stops fighting, and
says, "Okay, I will bow to the pressure
and initiate a sale process here." Well,
the good news, bad news for the NFL is
that because they've been so successful
and the Washington Football Team is a
great franchise, great stadium rights,
etc.,
>> key market. this is an extremely
valuable asset. And so, yes, on the one
hand, that's great news. It's validation
of the NFL's, you know, whole strategy
for the past hundred years. On the other
hand, they've kind of become hostages of
their own success because of all those
strict ownership rules that they have.
They now need to come up with a new
principal owner candidate who has enough
liquid cash to cover an emergency
purchase of 30% at least.
of the Washington football team.
>> And the most recent purchase was the
year before
>> when the Walton family bought the
Broncos, I think, for 4.65 billion.
>> Yes. So, you already have this new very
high watermark and you already found the
family behind Walmart. So, like, okay,
you need to keep going down your list of
where can we find liquid principal
family-owned capital.
>> So, just to put some numbers on this,
the Commanders ultimately sell for just
north of$6 billion dollars. So the
minimum required cash equity check here
is at least $1.8 billion
that you need somebody who just has that
liquidity lying around that they could
in a fast process invest in an NFL team
and oh yeah they also have to fit the
ven diagram of want to own an NFL team
based in Washington DC. Like this is not
a large pool of buyers here.
So ultimately they do find a buyer, Josh
Harris, who is the co-founder of the
huge private equity firm Apollo and
already own the Philadelphia 76ers in
the NBA and the New Jersey Devils in the
NHL. He comes in as the principal owner,
the new ownership group of the
Washington Football franchise along with
20 other limited partners because oh
yeah, that's the other problem here. You
also need this person to have enough
friends who are willing to throw in that
can cough up another like three to four
billion dollars in cash here because
like yes there's the 1.5 billion in debt
but that still means you need 4.5
billion in cash. So it's kind of a
miracle that this all happens. It
started impacting the game too. It's
like because this is all during the
offseason that this is going down.
What's going to happen to the
commanders? Are they going to continue
operations? It's crazy.
>> Uncertainty is not good for the league.
>> No, definitely not.
>> They forecast revenue 15 years in
advance.
>> Yes. So once all the dust settles, the
owners are like, "All right, we can
never have this happen again. We know we
need to change something here." So the
next off season in summer of 2024, they
vote to allow private equity into the
NFL. uh
>> basically all the other major sports
leagues around the world had already
done this and the NFL was the last hold
out. And again, you can understand why
like having these strong principal
owners that can all get in a room and
negotiate, think long term, have a huge
part of their family's net worth, be the
team.
>> Yeah,
>> it all makes sense.
>> But private equity desperately wants to
get in. And more than ever, you now need
private equity's money. But the NFL
still has leverage. It's still the cream
of the crop thing to own. And they've
watched private equity go wrong in all
these other sports leagues.
>> So, this is where the NFL proves once
again that they truly are N of one. So,
they meet with a bunch of private equity
firms, talk amongst the ownership group,
hammer out a new set of ownership
regulations for NFL teams, and here are
the four major rules that they dropped.
Number one, the NFL will approve a set
list of private equity firms, large
private equity firms who have the
opportunity,
the option, the ability to invest in
league franchises. That list is vetted
by the NFL, subject to change, and if
you are not on that list, you are not
allowed in.
And that set of firms right now is only
four four very large private equity
firms that have the anointed ability to
invest in NFL teams. Number two, those
private equity firms are now allowed to
own up to 10% of the equity in NFL
franchises, but no more than 10% under
any circumstances. That is the smallest
cap of any major sports league out
there, if they have caps at all on
private equity ownership. Three, these
private equity firms will be fully
silent limited partners in the ownership
group with no control and no rights.
Perry pursue exactly the same
effectively as all of the previous
individual limited partners in the
ownership groups. If you're a random
movie star who happens to own a little
tiny bit of a team, you have the same
rights as a PE firm who owns 10%.
>> Yep. You have the same rights as Aries
Management or Sixth Street or Carlile
or, you know, the small set of firms.
And then number four, this is the
kicker. Upon any eventual sale or
monetization of the ownership stake that
private equity would have in an NFL
franchise,
a portion of the returns on that
investment get skimmed off the top and
go back to the NFL and then get
distributed equally among all 32 NFL
team ownership groups. This is wild.
>> So, you texted me this. I couldn't
believe it. But suddenly everything
makes sense.
>> Yes.
>> That's why there's an anointed set of
four. It's not just there's only four PE
firms we trust. It's there's four PE
firms that we went and we did a deal
with where if they buy into our league,
we effectively get carry on their
investment because when they sell, we
get some of the profits.
>> It's funny you asked about carry and the
ownership structures. I don't know
mechanically and legally how this
actually works, but in practice, this is
exactly what it is. The NFL invented a
way to charge carry on investor
ownership on franchises in the league.
It feels like the ultimate pinnacle of
the collective capitalism mindset and
ethos of the NFL.
>> Now, one interesting thing, a way to
look at this is that it is the NFL
pulling yet another lever at their
disposal to achieve competitive parody.
The league is using the fact that PE
firms want desperately to be in as a way
to redistribute the wealth from
increases in these incredibly high value
teams that private equity is buying into
and distributing that out to all of the
other 31 owners.
>> Yes, exactly. That's what I was going to
say. And I think this was one of the big
sticking points that emerged in the
owner meetings as they were
contemplating how to do this, which is
that only a subset of the teams are
going to avail themselves of the private
equity option either through sales of
the franchises or through minority stake
investments that have been happening a
lot.
>> Right? If you do that, we all get paid,
>> right? But it would have created an
imbalance, right? of like you know some
subset of the teams have embraced
private equity gotten these big
liquidity stakes had their valuations
get reset and the other set of teams
hadn't for whatever reason they decide
you know the family wants to keep 100%
or near 100% ownership etc etc this is
just brilliant
>> yeah so quick interesting math so as of
today Forbes estimates the average team
is worth $7.1 billion up from 4.5
billion when we did the episode team
valuation
now are 228 billion in total, up from
140 billion when we recorded the
episode. That's up 62%.
And again, these are estimates because
these are not mostly not liquid assets,
but interesting to know that.
>> Well, it's funny you say mostly not
liquid assets. A large number of them
have become liquid assets
>> have opened up sales to minority owners.
Yeah, because what's basically happened,
there have been no full team sales since
the commanders transaction that
precipitated all of this, but a large
number of teams have used this as a way
either with private equity or
interestingly more often without private
equity, usually with family offices to
sell minority stakes in the franchises
and get liquidity for the ownership
group.
>> But private equity being able to buy in
since they're a bidder drives up the
valuation. So even though they're
opening up sales to all these individual
people,
>> the prices are set. Yeah. By
institutional capital. So the Dolphins,
Bills, Chargers, Giants, Eagles, 49ers,
Raiders, Browns, and Patriots have all
sold minority stakes over the last, call
it, two years, and all at extremely
higher valuations than they would have
had this not happened. I also heard from
some wealth managers that advise people
who are buying into teams that they are
allocating this to people's fixed income
portfolio.
>> Wow.
>> That buying into an NFL team, you almost
treat it like
>> like an annuity.
>> An annuity. Yeah. I just know that it's
going to spit off this much cash each
year and it's like buying a bond. I
mean, everything we've talked about in
this update have basically all been
extremely positive developments for the
NFL and its business, but nothing we
talked about until now would have caused
60% asset value appreciation in 3 years
except for this.
>> Oh, multiple expansion
is crazy. Forbes now estimates the
annual revenue multiple in the NFL is
10.7x
which is up from 9x in 2024 and 6.4x
5 years ago. So in 5 years it went from
6.4x to 10.7.
>> It's funny how supply and demand will do
that.
>> Yeah. Investors either think there's
much more durability and growth in these
franchises than they did before or they
just don't care and they want to own a
scarce asset. Well, the NFL ownership
group had so constrained the buyer
investor market before to like such a
tiny tiny narrow window that buyers and
investors actually had a lot of leverage
and this has opened that window much
much much wider. It is funny to just do
the quick math on what the sort of carry
is on the carry type thing. So at 10%
stake of a team that's worth 8ish
billion dollars. So, you're putting up
800 million as a private equity firm.
Let's say that goes up 30% before you
exit your position. That's a gain of 240
million. I have no idea what the spiff
is or the carry. Let's assume it's 10%.
I don't know if that's conservative or
not, but it's less than 20%. That 10%
would be $24 million that the rest of
the owners just get for free as a little
thank you for letting private equity
participate in our league here. which
hey in the context of the revenue of the
NFL that's not a lot but that's just for
a transaction around an individual team
collectively the transaction potential
is 32 of those
>> right so my last comment on valuations
and how each of these teams are doing as
businesses give you a couple other data
points here now estimates the Cowboys
are worth 13 billion the Cowboys are the
high water mark because the Cowboys have
an exceptional amount of local revenue
revenue that they produce. As we
mentioned earlier on the episode, the
estimated 2024 revenue of the Cowboys
was $1.2 billion while posting an
operating income of 630 million.
>> That's actually a reasonable valuation.
You're talking about yes 10x revenue and
20x operating income.
>> But to my point on the disparity here
between the most thriving team and the
least thriving, sure, the Cowboys can
spit off 630 million in profit. The
average team spits off 127 million in
profit and the least profitable team
only generates 21 million in profit. So,
a couple points here. One, NFL teams are
now just always reliably profitable
businesses. That's not true in most
sports and it wasn't true in the NFL's
history, but if you own an NFL team, you
are going to get, I believe, get a
dividend check every year since they're
cash generative. But two, this league
first mentality is going to be really
tested in the coming years with these
enormously profitable teams at the top
and these teams at the bottom. I mean,
$21 million, that really illustrates why
a $24 million payday coming from private
equity, every individual million that
you stack on top of that 21 is very
impactful to your profitability as a
business overall. So even though
valuations have become stratospheric and
the NFL is a better business than ever,
the team disparity, especially on the
bottom line thing, I continue to be
concerned about that.
>> That remains the bare case for the NFL
going forward.
>> Yep.
>> All that said, for the moment at least,
communist capitalism is alive and well
in the NFL.
>> Yes. And the answer to the question we
had three years ago of could the NFL
grow from here is resoundingly
abso freakingutely.
>> Yeah.
>> If by asset value if nothing else.
>> Yep. And that is a great place to leave
it. Well, we have some thank yous
especially to folks that helped us with
the follow-up research. My biggest one
goes to Jeff Dunn, the chief strategy
officer of the Seattle Seahawks, who I
spent um good amount of time with
prepping for this, especially while we
are here on our playoff run. We are
recording this right ahead of the NFC
Championship. So, sorry.
>> Driving the David
Well, my thank yous are to all of our
many friends in the 49ers organization
who um sadly I felt less bad about
emailing this week after uh your
Seahawks. Yeah, they had some free time.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Knocked us out of the
playoffs last week.
>> They're great. Every single person we've
worked with, the 49ers and talked to to
help prep and just gotten to know over
the last few years has been great.
>> They've been immensely helpful become
good friends. And we also have them to
thank for helping bring Super Bowl 60
back to the Bay Area and launching the
innovation summit and having us be part
of it. I know it's funny that we talked
about the whole creation of Super Bowl
media week as this big innovation and
all the gloss and sheen that it adds to
the game and now we get to be part of
the gloss and
>> acquired as part of the gloss and sheen
if you had told us that three years ago.
Uh
I don't know what we would have said.
>> Absolutely not. Well, a huge thank you
to our partners on this episode to Vanta
Sierra Sentry and Cruso. You can click
the link in the show notes to learn more
about any of them. As always, all of our
sources for this episode, including
updated sources, are linked in the show
notes. And for any of our partners, you
can click the link in the show notes to
learn more about any of them. For the
Super Bowl Innovation Summit, you will
after the Super Bowl be able to watch
everything that we did on stage at the
Innovation Summit. Links to more
information on that are in the show
notes as well. If you want to discuss
this, please come to the acquired Slack.
That is acquired.fm/slack.
We have a thriving, thoughtful community
going there discussing this and every
past episode. If you liked this episode,
check out our episodes on the NBA, IPL
Cricut, and recent ones on Coca-Cola and
Trader Joe's that were super super fun.
And if you want to join our massively
upgraded email list where you get
interesting behindthe-scenes
photos from our research that we find or
our big takeaways from the episode or
the key numbers that when you're trying
to convince your friend you should
listen to Acquire the baffling stats
that you learned and things like help us
pick future episodes by weighing in in
the polls that we do each season. You
can join that at acquired.fm/email.
So, thank you so much to everyone who is
on that list. And with that, listeners,
we'll see you next time.
>> See you next time.
>> Is it you? Is it you? Is it you? Who got
the truth now? Huh?